---PAGE 1---


---PAGE 2---


---PAGE 3---
3

---PAGE 4---
IMPORTANT SAFETY INSTRUCTIONS
WARNING - WHEN USING ELECTRIC PRODUCTS, THESE BASIC PRECAUTIONS SHOULD ALWAYS 
BE FOLLOWED:
1. Read all the instructions before using the product.
2. Do not use this product near water - for example, near a bathtub, washbowl, kitchen sink, in a wet    
    basement, or near a swimming pool or the like.
3. This product, in combination with an amplifier and headphones or speakers, may be capable of 
    producing sound levels that could cause permanent hearing loss. Do not operate for a long period 
    of time at a high volume level or at a level that is uncomfortable.
4. The product should be located so that its location does not interfere with its proper ventilation.
5. The product should be located away from heat sources such as radiators, heat registers, or other 
    products that produce heat. No naked flame sources (such as candles, lighters, etc.) should be 
    placed near this product. Do not operate in direct sunlight.
6. The product should be connected to a power supply only of the type described in the operating 
    instructions or as marked on the product.
7. The power supply cord of the product should be unplugged from the outlet when left unused for 
    a long period of time or during lightning storms.
8. Care should be taken so that objects do not fall, and liquids are not spilled, into the enclosure 
    through openings.
There are no user serviceable parts inside. Refer all servicing to qualified personnel only.
NOTE: This equipment has been tested and found to comply with the limits for a Class B digital 
device, pursuant to Part 15 of the FCC rules. These limits are designed to provide reasonable protection 
against harmful interference in a residential installation. This equipment generates, uses, and can 
radiate radio frequency energy and, if not installed and used in accordance with the instructions, may 
cause harmful interference to radio communications. However, there is no guarantee that interference 
will not occur in a particular installation. If this equipment does cause harmful interference to radio 
or television reception, which can be determined by turning the equipment off and on, the user is 
encouraged to try to correct the interference by one or more of the following measures:
 — Reorient or relocate the receiving antenna.
 — Increase the separation between the equipment and receiver.
 — Connect the equipment to an outlet on a circuit different from
      that to which the receiver is connected.
 — Consult the dealer or an experienced radio/TV technician for help.
CAUTION: Please note that any changes or modifications made to this product not expressly approved 
by Moog Music Inc. could void the user’s authority granted by the FCC to operate the equipment.

---PAGE 5---
TABLE OF CONTENTS
UNPACKING & INSPECTION
SETUP & CONNECTIONS
ABOUT MATRIARCH
SIGNAL FLOW
FEATURES & CONTROLS
KEYBOARD
LEFT-HAND CONTROLLER
OSCILLATORS
UNDERSTANDING OSCILLATOR SYNC
OSCILLATOR PATCH POINTS
MIXER
MIXER PATCH POINTS
FILTERS
FILTER PATCH POINTS
ENVELOPE GENERATORS (ADSR)
ENVELOPE GENERATOR PATCH POINTS
OUTPUT
VCA PATCH POINTS
STEREO DELAY
STEREO DELAY PATCH POINTS
MODULATION
MODULATION PATCH POINTS
UTILITIES (1)
UTILITIES (2)
ARP / SEQ
ARP / SEQ PATCH POINTS
ARP / SEQ LHC CONTROLS
PARAPHONY
REAR PANEL
AUDIO JACKS
STEREO DELAY JACKS
KEYBOARD JACKS 
ARP / SEQ JACKS
MIDI PORTS
GLOBAL SETTINGS
MIDI DOCUMENTATION 
SIGNAL FLOW DIAGRAMS
BLANK PRESETS
SPECIFICATIONS
WARRANTY
SERVICE & SUPPORT INFORMATION
8
8
9
10
10
10
1 1
13
14
16
17
19
20
23
25
27
29
30
32
34
36
38
40
42
44
48
49
50
52
54
56
56
58
59
61
71
80
84
90 
91 
91

---PAGE 6---
6
STEREO DELAY
16’
8’ 4’
2’
20Hz 20kHz
200Hz 2kHz
+-
+-+-+-
0
+-
1
2 3
4
+-
+-
0
+-
0
+-
16’
8’ 4’
2’16’
8’ 4’
2’ 16’
8’ 4’
2’
Based on the vintage circuitry of classic Moog synthesizer modules, Matriarch
is a catalyst for creative ideas and a medium for multidimensional expression.
MATRIARCH

---PAGE 7---
7
STEREO DELAY
16’
8’ 4’
2’
20Hz 20kHz
200Hz 2kHz
+-
+-+-+-
0
+-
1
2 3
4
+-
+-
0
+-
0
+-
16’
8’ 4’
2’16’
8’ 4’
2’ 16’
8’ 4’
2’


---PAGE 8---
8
SETUP & CONNECTIONS
Check the contents of the shipping carton. Be careful when unpacking your new Moog Matriarch® so 
that nothing is lost or damaged. Moog recommends saving the carton and all packing materials in case 
you ever need to ship the instrument for any reason. 
Matriarch ships with the following items:
 Matriarch Semi-Modular Analog Synthesizer
  Power Supply
 Owner’s Manual
 Patch Cables
 Registration Card
What you will need:
   A table or surface where you can set your Matriarch. (30lbs / 13.61kg)
   A 1/4” instrument cable and amplified speaker, or headphones with a 1/4” plug.
   A properly wired AC outlet. (100 Volts to 240 Volts AC; 50/60 Hz)
POWER
Plug the included power adapter into the 12V DC power jack on the back of your Matriarch. Plug the 
other end of the included power adapter into an AC outlet. Matriarch uses a universal power supply 
that operates with power sources from 100 Volts to 240 Volts AC; 50/60 Hz.
  
NOTE: Your Matriarch is an analog instrument and should be allowed 10-15 minutes to warm up before use. 
In cases where it has been left in a cold car overnight, for example, it may take as long as 25 minutes before 
oscillator tuning has stabilized. Do not operate Matriarch in direct sunlight.
AUDIO OUTPUTS
With the Matriarch MAIN VOLUME  knob turned all the way down, plug one end of a 1/4” (TS) 
instrument cable into the MAIN OUT LEFT (MONO) jack on the rear panel to monitor the instrument 
in mono. To monitor the instrument in stereo, connect a second 1/4” (TS) instrument cable to the 
MAIN OUT RIGHT jack on the rear panel.
NOTE: The MAIN OUT jacks will work with both TS and TRS 1/4” cables. 
Plug the other end(s) into an amplified speaker or mixing console line-level input. Raise the MAIN  
VOLUME knob above the 12 O’clock position, and adjust the amplifier or mixer level accordingly.
HEADPHONE OUT
Also on the rear panel is a stereo headphone jack, complete with its own HEADPHONE VOLUME  
knob for private listening or monitoring.
NOTE: This headphone jack is unaffected by the MAIN VOLUME knob in the Output module on the front panel.
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
1.
2.
3.
Power
Supply
HeadphonesSpeakers
UNPACKING & INSPECTION

---PAGE 9---
9
Matriarch sits at the pinnacle of the Moog family of semi-modular synthesizers. The patchable architecture 
and classic Moog circuits reward open exploration with endless sonic possibilities and unparalleled analog 
sound. Matriarch’s four analog VCOs can be split into four notes of paraphony that can be sequenced, 
shifted, and stored with the instrument’s intuitive 256 step Sequencer, or stacked in unison to create a 
massive four-oscillator mono synth.
With a deep assortment of synthesis modules based on Bob Moog’s original circuit designs, Matriarch 
provides a 100% analog signal path spanning a dynamic sonic vocabulary – from overdriven monophonic 
bass to gently evolving paraphonic plucks that cycle through waveshapes into a wash of infinite delay 
trails. Coupling the power of vintage-designed stereo Ladder Filters, dual Envelope Generators, stereo 
Analog Delays, and stereo VCAs, Matriarch delivers a multi-dimensional sound that empowers the sonic 
exploration of both space and time.
Although Matriarch uses a semi-modular design that requires absolutely no patching, 90 modular patch 
points are easily accessible throughout the panel via the included 3.5mm patch cables. This powerful 
electronic instrument is a highly-versatile addition to any stage or studio that can effortlessly transform 
from a performance keyboard into a fully modular analog synthesizer at a moment’s notice. 
In addition to its standalone function, Matriarch is also an ideal processor of external sound sources and a 
powerful keyboard front-end for expanding a DFAM, Mother-32, Grandmother, or Eurorack modular system. 
EXQUISITE EXPRESSION
49 velocity-sensing keys with 
aftertouch, glide, and pitch & 
mod wheels.
HANDS-ON INTERFACE
Color-coded semi-modular front 
panel with single-function knobs, 
switches, and buttons.
PATCHABLE PERFORMER
90 modular patch points with 
expression pedal connectivity, 
external audio input, plus 5-Pin 
DIN & USB MIDI.
OSCILLATOR ABUNDANCE
4 analog oscillators with Hard 
Sync and FM capabilities.
FLEXIBLE FILTERING
Dual Ladder filters configurable 
in series, parallel, or stereo modes.
RHYTHMIC RECALL
Record and playback 12 unique 
sequences with up to 256 notes 
each, or arpeggiate endlessly 
through a random selection of 
held notes.
MULTIPLE MODULATORS
Dual, voltage-controlled analog 
LFOs with selectable waveforms 
and patchable routing.
ANALOG EFFECTS
Stereo analog delay with MIDI 
sync, ping pong, and tap tempo.
USEFUL UTILITIES
Three bipolar voltage-controlled 
attenuators and two 4-jack mults.
VERSATILE VOICING
Perform in mono (1-note), 2-note, 
and 4-note paraphonic modes.
MOD
ABOUT MATRIARCH

---PAGE 10---
10
SIGNAL FLOW
REFERENCE: To view the full Signal Flow diagram see Page 70-71.
FEATURES & CONTROLS
Matriarch’s panel is comprised largely of single-function knobs, switches, and buttons that are grouped 
together by module. Each module is equipped with a set of 3.5mm patch points that can be utilized 
to create new audio and control pathways within Matriarch. These patch points can also be used to 
establish synchronization and interconnectivity with other Moog synthesizers like Mother-32, DFAM, 
and Grandmother, or to create a completely a new instrument through deep integration with a 
Eurorack modular system. 
NOTE: Additional patch points and connectors are available on Matriarch’s rear panel.
KEYBOARD
Matriarch offers a 49-note Fatar keyboard with velocity and channel aftertouch. There are no hardwired 
connections for these signals; they can be easily accessed via rear-panel patch points and MIDI.
NOTE: By using the Mults and Attenuators found in the Utilities modules, multiple parameters can be affected – 
in varying amounts – using the Keyboard Pitch, Velocity and Aftertouch control signals.
PWM
PITCH
PWM
PWM
PWM
PITCH
PITCH
PITCH
OSC  4
NOISE
MOD
OSC
MOD
WHEEL
VCA
OSC  3
OSC  2
OSC  1

---PAGE 11---
11
The Left-Hand Controller (LHC) is home to a number of 
performance-enriching controls. The PITCH (Pitch Bend) and 
MOD (Modulation) wheels deliver real-time expression, while 
the GLIDE knob provides enhanced articulation between 
notes. The Left-Hand Controller is also home to the Transport 
Buttons for the Arpeggiator and Sequencer, allowing instant 
access to these powerful features during performance.
TRANSPORT BUTTONS
PLAY
The green PLAY button acts as a toggle, either arming or 
disarming the Arpeggiator or Sequencer. When this button is 
lit, pressing the notes to be arpeggiated, or the starting note 
of a sequence, will begin playback. This button will remain lit 
when the Sequencer or Arpeggiator is armed.
HOLD
The blue HOLD button acts as a latch for the Arpeggiator and 
the Sequencer, where notes played and released remain held 
until new notes are played. This button will remain lit as long 
as the Hold function is engaged.
TAP
The playback tempo of the Arpeggiator or Sequencer can be 
set using a series of successive taps on this yellow TAP button. 
Once a Tempo has been entered using the TAP button, it will 
remain lit yellow. To exit Tap Tempo, simply press and hold the 
TAP button until its light goes out. 
TIP: As long as the TAP  button is lit yellow (indicating a tempo 
has been entered using this method), turning the RATE  knob in 
the ARP / SEQ module will select clock divisions of this tempo.
NOTE: More specific information regarding these buttons can be 
found in the ARP / SEQ chapter of this manual located on Page 49.
MOD
LEFT-HAND CONTROLLER

---PAGE 12---
12
OCTAVE TRANSPOSE 
The Transport Buttons can also be used to shift the pitch of the 
keyboard up or down in one-octave increments. This allows 
the range of the keyboard to be extended without changing 
the settings of individual oscillators. To transpose the keyboard 
by octave units, simply press and hold the [SHIFT] button, 
and then press the [<KB] button (down one octave) or [KB>] 
button (up one octave). The transpose range is up or down
two octaves.
NOTE: Press the HOLD, PLAY, and TAP buttons at the same time 
to reset Matriarch to its default octave. Press and hold these same 
three buttons for one second to utilize the MIDI Panic function 
and silence any stuck notes.
PITCH
The PITCH wheel (Pitch Bend) provides an intuitive method for quickly bending the
pitch of the oscillators up or down during live performance.
NOTE: The PITCH wheel is spring-loaded and will return to center position as soon as it is released.
MOD
The MOD wheel (Modulation) provides an expressive way to introduce and control 
modulation while performing. At minimum position, no modulation is applied. As the 
MOD wheel’s position is raised, more modulation is introduced. At its uppermost 
position, the amount of modulation is equal to the maximum values set using the 
PITCH AMT (Oscillator Pitch), CUTOFF AMT (Filter Cutoff Frequency), and PULSE 
WIDTH AMT (Pulse Width Modulation [PWM]) knobs in the Modulation module.
NOTE: Unlike the PITCH wheel, the MOD  wheel is not spring-loaded, and will remain in 
position until it is moved again.
TIP: You can patch from the MOD WHL OUT jack on the Matriarch rear panel to any available 
destination for a more expressive and expansive performance.
MOD
LEFT-HAND CONTROLLER (Continued)

---PAGE 13---
13
Matriarch’s analog sound begins with four 
voltage-controlled oscillators (VCOs) of 
nearly identical design. Each oscillator provides 
individual control of the Octave and Waveform 
settings, while Oscillators 2, 3, and 4 also feature 
a FREQUENCY knob used for detuning from 
Oscillator 1. 
Oscillators can be tuned in unison or set to 
differing intervals, octaves, and waveforms 
to create a vast expanse of monophonic and 
paraphonic sounds. 
Oscillators 2, 3, and 4 can also be Hard Sync’d to 
the previous oscillator using the dedicated SYNC 
buttons – Oscillator 2 can be sync’d to Oscillator 1, 
Oscillator 3 to Oscillator 2, and Oscillator 4 to 
Oscillator 3. 
NOTE: There is a FINE TUNE knob located on 
Matriarch’s rear panel for adjusting the overall 
tuning of the instrument.
MODULE PROVENANCE: Matriarch’s Oscillators are based on those found in the Minimoog Voyager and are 
descendants of the classic Moog 921 Oscillator design.
OCTAVE
This four-position switch is used to select the fundamental octave setting 
for each oscillator. The choices are 16’, 8’, 4’ and 2’. 
NOTE: These octave numbers originated as lengths (or footages) in the days 
of pipe organs.
GLIDE
Glide produces a smooth, continuous change in pitch when transitioning 
from one note to the next. The GLIDE  knob sets the amount of time needed 
to complete this transition. When the GLIDE  knob is set to minimum, there is 
no Glide effect. Raising the value of the GLIDE  knob will increase the Glide 
time between notes from zero to a maximum value of roughly ten seconds.
TIP: Legato Glide only produces the Glide effect when a new note is played while the 
previous note is still held down on the keyboard. To turn Legato Glide On, continue 
to press the [SHIFT]  button while turning the GLIDE  knob to the right. To turn Legato 
Glide Off, continue to press the [SHIFT]  button while turning the GLIDE  knob to the 
left. The Default setting for Legato Glide is Off.
16’
8’ 4’
2’
LEFT-HAND CONTROLLER (Continued)
OSCILLATORS

---PAGE 14---
14
FREQUENCY (Oscillators 2, 3, & 4)
The FREQUENCY knob detunes each oscillator from the pitch of Oscillator 1 over 
a range of +/- 7 semitones (or a musical 5th). The center position (12 O’clock) 
tunes the oscillator in unison with Oscillator 1. Increasing the value (+) raises 
the pitch, while decreasing the value (–) lowers the pitch.
NOTE: The range of the FREQUENCY  knobs can be specified in the Global Settings.
UNDERSTANDING OSCILLATOR SYNC
When two oscillators are sync’d, the first oscillator behaves 
normally, while the phase of the second, or sync’d oscillator, is 
forced to reset its cycle to match each new cycle of the first 
oscillator. This synchronization causes the waveform of 
the sync’d oscillator to take on a more complex wave shape 
as it works to stay aligned with the first oscillator. Sync is useful 
for creating sharp, metallic, and flange-like sounds, while also 
ensuring that the pitch of the sync’d oscillator stays locked 
to the pitch of the first oscillator.
TIP: Applying modulation to the pitch of a sync’d oscillator is a great 
way to enhance the sound of the Sync effect.
SYNC ENABLE (Main)
Pressing the main red SYNC ENABLE button enables the Sync functions of 
Oscillator 2, Oscillator 3, and Oscillator 4. The button will remain lit as long as 
the Sync function is On. Press the red SYNC ENABLE button a second time to 
turn the Sync function Off.
NOTE: When the frequency of the sync’d oscillator is set below that of the oscillator 
it is sync’d to, the sync’d oscillator will not be able to complete a full cycle before it 
is forced to reset, resulting in little or no sound.
INDIVIDUAL OSCILLATOR SYNC (Oscillators 2, 3, & 4)
Oscillators 2, 3, and 4 are each equipped with a dedicated button that allows 
it to be sync’d to the previous oscillator.
1      2 SYNC
Pressing this button (On/lit red) will cause Oscillator 2 to become sync’d to 
Oscillator 1. In this case, changing the Frequency of Oscillator 2 will vary the 
degree of the Sync effect and its associated harmonic content. The range of 
the FREQUENCY  knob is also greatly increased while the oscillator is sync’d.
OSCILLATOR
HARD SYNC’D OSCILLATOR
OSCILLATORS (Continued)

---PAGE 15---
15
2      3 SYNC
Pressing this button (On/lit red) will cause Oscillator 3 to become sync’d to 
Oscillator 2. In this case, changing the Frequency of Oscillator 3 will vary the 
degree of the Sync effect and its associated harmonic content. The range of 
the FREQUENCY  knob is also greatly increased while the oscillator is sync’d.
3      4 SYNC
Pressing this button (On/lit red) will cause Oscillator 4 to become sync’d to 
Oscillator 3. In this case, changing the Frequency of Oscillator 4 will vary the 
degree of the Sync effect and its associated harmonic content. The range of 
the FREQUENCY knob is also greatly increased while the oscillator is sync’d.
NOTE: Remember, the main red SYNC  button must be On (lit) for the individual 
Oscillator Sync functions to work.
WAVEFORM (Triangle, Sawtooth, Square, Pulse)
Each waveform has unique harmonic content that is based on the number and 
strength of the harmonic overtones that it contains. These overtones are what 
impart a particular timbre, or character, to the sound of each oscillator. This 
four-position knob is used to select the oscillator’s waveform. The choices are 
Triangle, Sawtooth, Square, and Narrow Pulse.
TRIANGLE
The Triangle wave has an extremely strong fundamental, and contains only 
odd-numbered harmonics at very low levels. This makes the Triangle wave an 
ideal choice for creating soft, flute-like sounds that have a relatively pure tone 
with little overtone activity.
TIP: Try mixing a Triangle wave from one oscillator with a more complex wave from 
another to emphasize one particular harmonic without adding unwanted overtones.
SAWTOOTH
The Sawtooth wave is the most harmonically dense of the four waveform 
options, containing all of the natural harmonics in relatively strong levels. 
In addition to creating thick, brassy sounds, the Sawtooth wave lends itself 
to powerful lead and bass sounds as well.
 
PULSE WAVES (Square & Narrow Pulse)
A Pulse wave contains only odd-numbered harmonics. Think of it as a switch that is being turned off 
and on hundreds or thousands of times per second. Pulse width, or duty cycle, is the percentage of 
time that the wave is “on.” Every pulse width has its own unique harmonic structure, making a variety 
of basic timbres possible.
OSCILLATORS (Continued)

---PAGE 16---
16
SQUARE
A Square wave is simply a Pulse wave with a 50% duty cycle, meaning that in 
a single cycle, it is on half of the time and off half of the time. If the frequency 
is 440 Hz, it turns on and off 440 times every second. Square waves have a 
hollow sound and provide a rich starting point for clarinet and bass sounds. 
NARROW PULSE
As a Pulse wave continues to grow narrower, the resulting timbre takes 
on a more reedy, or nasal tone and is used to make oboe and even classic 
“clav” sounds.
TIP: Varying the duty cycle of the Pulse wave can result in a wide variety of lush 
or chorus-like sounds. With at least one oscillator set to produce a Pulse wave, try 
experimenting with the  PULSE WIDTH AMT knob in the Modulation module and 
listen to how modulating this waveform affects the sound.
OSCILLATOR PATCH POINTS
Each Matriarch oscillator is equipped with versatile patch points, allowing for a 
variety of modulation possibilities, including Linear FM (Frequency Modulation) 
and PWM (Pulse Width Modulation).
NOTE: The patch points for each oscillator are identical.
PITCH IN (Exponential Frequency Modulation)
A control signal connected to this input will modulate the Pitch (Frequency) 
of a patched oscillator and all subsequent oscillators, unless a subsequent 
oscillator is also receiving a modulation signal via its own PITCH IN  jack. This 
input voltage is added to the voltage from the note played on the keyboard.
NOTE: Connecting a modulation source to the PITCH  input on Oscillator 1 will affect 
the Pitch of Oscillators 1, 2, 3, and 4. Connecting an additional modulation source 
to the PITCH input of Oscillator 2 will affect the Pitch of Oscillators 2, 3 and 4, and 
will prevent the modulation signal arriving at the Oscillator 1 PITCH input jack from 
modulating these oscillators. 
TIP: By connecting a modulation source to the Oscillator 1 PITCH IN jack, and a “dead 
patch” to the Oscillator 2 PITCH IN jack, only Oscillator 1 will receive the modulation 
signal. A dead patch is a cable connected to a patch point with no connection on the 
opposite end, used to interrupt normalized signal paths.
CV INPUT:  -5V to +5V Control Voltage (1V/Oct)
OSCILLATORS (Continued)

---PAGE 17---
17
OSCILLATORS (Continued)
LIN FM IN (Linear Frequency Modulation)
Connecting an audio signal or high-frequency control signal to this input 
introduces Linear Frequency Modulation (FM) to a patched oscillator, which 
can be useful in creating brash, metallic, or bell-like tones.
CV INPUT:  -5V to +5V Control Voltage (AC coupled) 
PWM IN
A control signal connected to this input will modulate the pulse width of the 
Square or Narrow Pulse waveform selected by a patched oscillator. Pulse Width 
Modulation (PWM) varies the duty cycle, or pulse width of a wave, and thereby 
changes its harmonic content. Among other things, PWM is often used to mimic 
the sound of ensemble strings and to thicken bass sounds.
CV INPUT: -5V to +5V
WAVE OUT
The audio signal available at this output is determined by the settings of the 
OCTAVE, FREQUENCY, SYNC and WAVEFORM knobs of a patched oscillator.
CV / AUDIO OUTPUT: 10V peak-to-peak
The Mixer is where all of the sound sources within Matriarch are blended 
together before being passed on to the Filter. Patch points in the Mixer 
allow each hardwired source (Oscillators 1 – 4 and Noise) to be replaced 
with an external audio signal. There is also a line-level Instrument Input on 
Matriarch’s rear panel that feeds directly to the Mixer. 
MODULE PROVENANCE: Matriarch’s Mixer is based on the classic 
Moog CP3 module.
MIXER

---PAGE 18---
18
NOISE
Matriarch features a built-in White Noise generator. Noise is an unpitched 
sound source that can be a useful tool for creating powerful percussion sounds, 
or for adding a gentle breath to synthesized wind instruments such as flutes. 
The NOISE knob sets the level of the White Noise generator as it enters the 
Mixer. Settings above 11 O’clock will impart gentle distortion, while higher 
settings will result in more overdriven sounds.
NOTE: A High Pass Filter (HPF) can be applied to the noise signal using the Global 
Settings on page 63, allowing the color (or harmonic strength per frequency band) to 
be adjusted.
OSCILLATOR 1
The OSCILLATOR 1 knob sets the level of Oscillator 1 as it enters the Mixer. 
Settings above 11 O’clock will impart gentle distortion, while higher settings 
will result in more overdriven tones.
OSCILLATOR 2
The OSCILLATOR 2 knob sets the level of Oscillator 2 as it enters the Mixer. 
Settings above 11 O’clock will impart gentle distortion, while higher settings 
will result in more overdriven tones.
OSCILLATOR 3
The OSCILLATOR 3 knob sets the level of Oscillator 3 as it enters the Mixer. 
Settings above 11 O’clock will impart gentle distortion, while higher settings 
will result in more overdriven tones.
OSCILLATOR 4
The OSCILLATOR 4 knob sets the level of Oscillator 4 as it enters the Mixer. 
Settings above 11 O’clock will impart gentle distortion, while higher settings 
will result in more overdriven tones.
MIXER (Continued)

---PAGE 19---
19
MIXER PATCH POINTS
These Mixer module patch points provide a convenient 
way to replace any or all of the internal sound sources 
entering the Mixer with an external sound source, such as 
a Eurorack oscillator or other electronic music devices. 
TIP: Matriarch’s Mixer is DC coupled, which means it can 
also be used to sum multiple control voltages. Combining 
audio signals with control signals will yield results that can 
be unique, bizarre, or completely undesirable.
PERFORMANCE NOTE:  Mix gates are located on Oscillator channels 1-4. When in 2-Note or 4-Note Paraphonic 
mode, external sources will be dynamically muted just as the onboard oscillators would.
NOISE IN
When an external audio source is patched to this input, the Noise generator 
will be removed from the signal path, and the NOISE  knob will control the 
level of the new source.
AUDIO INPUT: -5V to +5V (10V peak-to-peak)
OSC 1 IN
When an external audio source is patched to this input, Oscillator 1 will be 
removed from the signal path, and the OSCILLATOR 1  knob will control the 
level of the new source.
AUDIO INPUT:  -5V to +5V (10V peak-to-peak)
OSC 2 IN
When an external audio source is patched to this input, Oscillator 2 will be 
removed from the signal path, and the OSCILLATOR 2  knob will control the 
level of the new source.
AUDIO INPUT:  -5V to +5V (10V peak-to-peak)
OSC 3 IN
When an external audio source is patched to this input, Oscillator 3 will be 
removed from the signal path, and the OSCILLATOR 3  knob will control the 
level of the new source.
AUDIO INPUT: -5V to +5V (10V peak-to-peak)
MIXER (Continued)

---PAGE 20---
20
OSC 4 IN
When an external audio source is patched to this input, Oscillator 4 will be 
removed from the signal path, and the OSCILLATOR 4  knob will control the 
level of the new source.
AUDIO INPUT:  -5V to +5V (10V peak-to-peak)
OUTPUT
The combined signal of all audio sources connected to the Mixer is available 
at this output.
AUDIO OUTPUT:  10V peak-to-peak
Filters are paramount in shaping the tone of your 
sound. While an oscillator’s waveform determines the 
harmonic content of a raw wave, it is the filter that 
allows that harmonic content to be shaped, sculpted, 
and modulated over time to create something truly 
unique.
Matriarch’s filters operate in one of three selectable 
modes; Series, Parallel, or Stereo. Depending on the 
current setting of the FILTER MODE  switch, VCF 1 has 
the ability to operate in either High Pass or Low Pass 
mode, while VCF 2 maintains its Low Pass operation 
at all times.
NOTE: A stereo signal path is available from the filters onward.
MODULE PROVENANCE: Matriarch’s filters are based on the 
classic Moog 904A module.
MIXER (Continued)
FILTERS

---PAGE 21---
21
FILTERS (Continued)
CUTOFF
Matriarch’s CUTOFF knob specifies the Filter Cutoff frequency for both 
VCF 1 and VCF 2 in a linked fashion. The SPACING  knob is used to offset 
the frequency of VCF 1, above or below the Cutoff Frequency of VCF 2 . 
FILTER MODE 
This three-position switch defines how VCF 1 and VCF 2 are configured, 
and how they will interact with each other.
HP / LP SERIES
In this mode, VCF 1 is configured as a High Pass filter and VCF 2  is 
configured as Low Pass filter. Signal passes from the Mixer module into 
VCF 1 (High Pass), and then is routed into VCF 2 (Low Pass). The mono 
output signal from VCF 2 feeds both VCA 1 and VCA 2. 
NOTE: This is the foundation for creating a Band Pass filter.
LP / LP STEREO
In this mode, VCF 1 and VCF 2 function independently as Low Pass filters. 
Both receive the same signal from the Mixer module. VCF 1  is routed to 
VCA 1, and VCF 2 is routed to VCA 2. This creates a true-stereo signal path 
to the outputs.
HP / LP PARALLEL
In this mode, VCF 1 is configured as a High Pass filter and VCF 2  is 
configured as a Low Pass filter. Both receive the same signal from the 
Mixer module, and their outputs are combined into a monaural signal 
that feeds both VCA 1 and VCA 2. 
NOTE: This is the foundation for creating a Notch filter.
REFERENCE: To see Filter Mode Signal Flow diagrams see Page 72-73.
SPACING
Both VCF 1 and VCF 2 share the same Cutoff frequency value as 
determined by the CUTOFF knob. This SPACING knob specifies an offset 
in the value of the Cutoff frequency of VCF 1  in relation to the Cutoff 
frequency of VCF 2. This knob is bipolar; so turning this knob clockwise 
from center (+) increases the Cutoff frequency of VCF 1 to a value above 
that of VCF 2. Turning this knob counterclockwise (-) decreases the Cutoff 
frequency of VCF 1 to a value below that of VCF 2 . In the center position, 
the Cutoff frequency of VCF 1 is equal to the Cutoff frequency of VCF 2 . 
NOTE: The SPACING  knob only affects the Cutoff Frequency of VCF 1.
20Hz 20kHz
200Hz 2kHz

---PAGE 22---
22
RESONANCE 1 & 2
Resonance channels a portion of the Filter’s output back 
to the input of the Filter, creating an emphasis peak at the 
Filter’s Cutoff frequency. This is useful for adding focus, 
funkiness, or “sci-fi laser blasts” to a sound. 
The RESONANCE 1 knob sets the amount of Resonance 
being applied to VCF 1 , while the RESONANCE 2 knob sets 
the amount of Resonance being applied to VCF 2 .
NOTE: A RESONANCE  knob setting of around 3 O’clock or more will cause the filter to self-oscillate. 
ENVELOPE AMT (Envelope Amount)
The ENVELOPE AMT  knob determines how much of the control signal created 
by the Filter Envelope will be applied to the Filter’s Cutoff frequency over 
time. This knob is bipolar, so turning the ENVELOPE AMT  knob clockwise from 
center will raise the Filter’s Cutoff frequency from the CUTOFF  knob’s current 
setting. Turning it counterclockwise from center will lower the Filter’s Cutoff 
frequency from the CUTOFF knob’s current setting.
NOTE: Negative (or inverse) modulation simply flips the shape of the Filter Envelope 
generator. Instead of the Attack parameter raising the Cutoff frequency over time, 
the Attack parameter will lower the Cutoff frequency by the same amount, in the 
same period of time.
KB TRACKING (Keyboard Tracking)
Keyboard Tracking allows the note being played on the keyboard itself to be 
used as a modulation source for the Filter’s Cutoff frequency. Higher notes on 
the keyboard may be perceived as being brighter than lower notes – especially 
when the filter is in the Low Pass mode. 
When the KB TRACKING  knob is set to its maximum value (fully clockwise), 
the Filter will track the keyboard using the same 1 volt/octave scheme as the 
oscillators. At its minimum value (fully counterclockwise), the KB TRACKING  
knob will have no effect. 
TIP: Setting the RESONANCE  and KB TRACKING knobs to maximum allows the 
keyboard to play the Filter(s) similarly to an oscillator. 
FILTERS (Continued)

---PAGE 23---
23
FILTER PATCH POINTS
These Filter module patch points 
provide a convenient way to 
independently modulate the Cutoff 
frequency of VCF 1 and/or VCF 2, 
and to modulate the value of the 
ENVELOPE AMT knob. In addition, 
audio inputs and outputs allow each 
filter to be used as a stand-alone 
processor for filtering any internal or 
external sound source.
VCF 1 IN
The input to VCF 1 is connected to the output of the Mixer module. Patching 
an audio signal to this input overrides the Mixer signal, allowing any audio 
source to be processed by VCF 1. 
NOTE: The path and mode of VCF 1 are determined by the FILTER MODE switch.
AUDIO INPUT:  -5V to +5V
VCF 2 IN
The input of VCF 2 is connected to the output of the Mixer or VCF 1, depending 
on the position of the FILTER MODE switch. Patching an audio signal to this 
input overrides this signal, allowing any audio source to be processed 
by VCF 2 using the filter’s current settings. 
AUDIO INPUT:  -5V to +5V
VCF 1 OUT
The audio output of VCF 1 is available via this jack, allowing it to be sent to any 
input on Matriarch itself, or to an external electronic music device.
AUDIO OUTPUT:  10V peak-to-peak
NOTE: VCF 1 can be used as a stand-alone audio processor.
VCF 2 OUT
The audio output of VCF 2 is available via this jack, allowing it to be sent to any 
input on Matriarch itself, or to an external electronic music device.
AUDIO OUTPUT:  10V peak-to-peak
NOTE: VCF 2 can be used as a stand-alone audio processor.
FILTERS (Continued)

---PAGE 24---
24
CUTOFF 1 IN
A control signal connected here will modulate the Cutoff frequency of 
VCF 1. This is based on the current CUTOFF, SPACING, ENVELOPE AMT, 
and KB TRACKING knob settings.
CV INPUT: -5V to +5V
CUTOFF 2 IN
A control signal connected here will modulate the Cutoff frequency of VCF 2. 
This is based on the current CUTOFF, ENVELOPE AMT,  and KB TRACKING 
knob settings.
CV INPUT:  -5V to +5V
NOTE: A control signal arriving at the CUTOFF 1 IN jack is normalled to the CUTOFF 2 IN 
jack and will affect the Cutoff frequency of both VCF 1 and VCF 2. A control signal 
connected to the CUTOFF 2 IN jack will affect only the Cutoff frequency of VCF 2.
TIP: Connecting a modulation source to the CUTOFF 1 IN jack, and a “dead patch” to 
the CUTOFF 2 IN jack will prevent the modulation signal from reaching VCF 2. A dead 
patch is a cable connected to a patch point with no connection on the opposite end, 
used to interrupt normalized signal paths.
ENV AMT IN
A control signal connected here will modulate the value of the ENVELOPE 
AMT knob, thereby changing how much influence the Filter Envelope has 
over the Filter Cutoff frequency.
CV INPUT:  -5V to +5V
FILTERS (Continued)

---PAGE 25---
25
Sounds change over time. How they change 
over time is part of what makes each one unique. 
Some sounds begin abruptly, like the strike of a 
drum. Some sounds end just as quickly, and some 
linger like a held chord on a piano. We call this 
the envelope of a sound. Matriarch uses a pair of 
identical Envelope Generators to create control 
voltages that also change over time. This type of 
control voltage can be applied to the amplitude 
of the sound, changing its volume over time. This 
same type of control voltage can also be used to 
affect the Cutoff frequency of the Filter over time, 
creating changes in timbre, or tone. 
NOTE: In a semi-modular synthesizer such as Matriarch, 
an Envelope Generator can be patched to modulate any 
controllable parameter over time.
MODULE PROVENANCE: Matriarch’s Envelope 
Generators are based on the classic Moog 911 module.
Regardless of how the Envelope 
is applied, there are four main 
stages: Attack time, Decay time, 
Sustain level, and Release time. 
These controls are identical for 
both Envelope Generators.
Of these four stages, three relate 
to time, and are controlled by 
rotary knobs. Only the Sustain 
stage relates to level; it is 
controlled using a slider.
ATTACK
The ATTACK knob determines the amount of time required for the control 
signal to rise from zero to its maximum level once a key is pressed. The ATTACK 
knob has a range from 2 milliseconds to 10 seconds. Fast attacks are useful for 
creating plucked sounds, while slow attacks are more useful for creating bowed 
string sounds and swells. Brass swells will often have a faster Amplitude Attack 
and a slower Filter Attack.
amplitude
attack
decay
sustain
release
time
ENVELOPE GENERATORS (ADSR)

---PAGE 26---
26
DECAY
The DECAY knob determines the amount of time required for the control signal 
to fall from the maximum level achieved by the Attack stage to the Sustain 
level as the key is held. The DECAY knob has a range from 2 milliseconds to 10 
seconds. Fast decay times are useful for creating articulated lead notes, while 
longer decay times allow a note to fade slowly into the Sustain level.
SUSTAIN
While the Attack, Decay, and Release parameters deal with time, the Sustain 
parameter controls level. Once the Attack and Decay stages are complete, 
the control signal will remain at the level set by the SUSTAIN  slider, keeping 
the Amplitude and/or Filter at a steady level for as long as a key is held.
 
 
RELEASE
The RELEASE knob determines the amount of time required for the control 
signal to fall from its current level to zero once a key is released. The RELEASE 
knob has a range from 2 milliseconds to 10 seconds. Shorter settings are good 
for classic funk basses that end abruptly, while longer settings are good for 
creating smooth musical tails that ring out over time.
ENVELOPE GENERATORS (ADSR) (Continued)

---PAGE 27---
27
ENVELOPE GENERATOR 
PATCH POINTS
These patch points allow each 
Envelope Generator to be 
triggered from a source other 
than the Matriarch keyboard and 
can be used to modulate any 
patchable parameter internal to 
or external of Matriarch. 
FILTER ENVELOPE GENERATOR
ENV OUT (Filter EG)
This output provides a control-voltage signal created by the current Filter 
Envelope Generator panel settings. 
OUTPUT: 0V to +8V
NOTE: When the VCA MODE switch is set to SPLIT , the Filter Envelope Generator 
control signal also controls the level of VCA 1 (Left output).
TIP: An inverted EG signal (-ENV) can be created by patching from this +ENV OUT jack 
to an INPUT jack on one of three inverting Attenuators located in a Utilities module. 
Then, set the ATTENUATOR  knob to its minimum position, and patch from the OUTPUT 
jack to the desired destination.
ENV END OUT (Filter EG)
Once the Filter Envelope Generator has run its course and returned to its lowest 
level, a Gate signal is created and continuously output via this jack until a new 
envelope cycle is initiated via a keyboard or trigger input. This Gate signal can 
be used to initiate another event, such as advancing a sequence to the next step.
TIP: Patch from the ENV END OUT jack to the TRIGGER IN jack on a single Envelope 
to create a looping envelope. Shorter Attack and Release settings will yield more 
rhythmical results. 
CV OUTPUT:  0V to +5V 
TRIGGER IN (Filter EG)
Normally, the Filter Envelope Generator is initiated by pressing a key on the 
keyboard. A Gate or Control Voltage > 2.3V connected to this input can be 
used to initiate the Filter Envelope Generator as well.
NOTE: Patching into the TRIGGER IN jack will override Matriarch’s Keyboard Gate 
connection to the EG.
CV / GATE INPUT:  0V to +8V  
ENVELOPE GENERATORS (ADSR) (Continued)

---PAGE 28---
28
AMPLITUDE ENVELOPE GENERATOR
ENV OUT (Amplitude EG)
This output provides a control-voltage signal created by the current Amplitude 
Envelope Generator panel settings.
 
CV OUTPUT: 0V to +8V
NOTE: When the VCA MODE switch is set to AMP ENV , this signal controls the level 
 of both VCA 1 and VCA 2. When the Output module VCA MODE switch is set to SPLIT , 
the Filter Envelope Generator signal controls the level of VCA 1 (Left output), and the 
Amplitude Envelope Generator signal controls the level of VCA 2 (Right output).
TIP: An inverted EG signal (-ENV) can be created by patching from this +ENV OUT 
jack to an INPUT  jack on one of three inverting Attenuators located in a Utilities 
module. Then set the ATTENUATOR knob to its minimum (fully counterclockwise) 
position, and patch from the OUTPUT jack to the desired destination. 
 
ENV END OUT (Amplitude EG)
Once the Amplitude Envelope Generator has run its course and returned to 
its lowest level, a Gate signal is created and continuously output via this jack 
until a new envelope cycle is initiated via a keyboard or trigger input. This Gate 
signal can be used to initiate another event, such as advancing a sequence to 
the next step.
TIP: Patch from the ENV END OUT jack to the TRIGGER IN jack on a single Envelope 
to create a looping envelope. Using shorter Attack and Release settings will yield 
more rhythmical results. 
GATE OUTPUT: 0V to +8V  
TRIGGER IN (Amplitude EG)
Normally, the Amplitude Envelope Generator is initiated by pressing a key on 
the keyboard. A Gate or Control Voltage > 2.3V connected to this input can 
be used to initiate the Amplitude Envelope Generator as well.
NOTE: Patching into the  TRIGGER IN jack will override Matriarch’s Keyboard Gate 
connection to the EG. 
CV/GATE INPUT: 0V to +8V
ENVELOPE GENERATORS (ADSR) (Continued)

---PAGE 29---
29
Matriarch is equipped with two Voltage-Controlled Amplifiers, VCA 1 and VCA 2.
Before the sounds created by Matriarch can be output and monitored through 
speakers or recorded, they pass through a pair of VCAs and are brought to an 
appropriate level. The Output module controls will determine how the final sound 
is heard. By default, VCA 1 controls the Left channel output level and VCA 2 
controls the Right channel output level.
MODULE PROVENANCE:  Matriarch’s output VCAs are based on the classic Moog 902 module.
MAIN VOLUME
The MAIN VOLUME knob sets the level for the LEFT (MONO) OUT and 
RIGHT OUT outputs jack (located in the Audio section on Matriarch’s rear panel).
NOTE: The EURORACK  and HEADPHONE  output jacks on the rear panel are unaffected 
by the front panel MAIN VOLUME knob settings.
VCA MODE (Envelope, Split, Drone)
The VCA MODE switch determines which control signals – if any – are changing 
the output level of each VCA.
AMP ENV 
In the AMP ENV position, the output level of both VCA 1 and VCA 2 will be 
controlled by the Amplifier Envelope Generator.
SPLIT
In the SPLIT position, the output level of VCA 1 is controlled by the Filter 
Envelope Generator, and the output level of VCA 2 is controlled by the 
Amplifier Envelope Generator.
DRONE 
In the DRONE position, the output levels of the VCAs are unaffected by either 
EG. Instead, the output level is set by a default voltage normalled to the VCA 1 
CV IN and VCA 2 CV IN patch points. 
NOTE: Matriarch will continue to drone at this level, whether a key is held or not.
OUTPUT

---PAGE 30---
30
VCA PATCH POINTS
All of the VCA patch points are inputs. The upper row (VCA 1 IN and VCA 2 IN) 
are audio inputs, while the second row ( VCA 1 CV IN and VCA 2 CV IN) are 
control signal inputs. Audio and control signals connected here will override, 
or replace, any normalled connections.
VCA 1 IN
The audio signal normally connected to the input of VCA 1 comes from 
the Filter module. The exact nature of the audio source is determined by the 
FILTER MODE switch located in the Filter module. Patching an audio signal 
to this input overrides the Filter signal, allowing any audio source to be 
processed by VCA 1 using the current settings.
AUDIO INPUT:  -5V to +5V
VCA 2 IN
The audio signal normally connected to the input of VCA 2 comes from 
the Filter module. The exact nature of the audio source is determined by the 
FILTER MODE switch located in the Filter module. Patching an audio signal 
to this input overrides the Filter signal, allowing any audio source to be 
processed by VCA 2 using the current settings.
AUDIO INPUT:  -5V to +5V
NOTE: The normal input source of VCA 1 and VCA 2 is determined by the FILTER MODE 
switch. With this switch in the HP / LP SERIES position, the output of VCF 1 feeds into 
VCF 2, and the composite output of VCF 2 is sent to the input of both VCA 1 and VCA 2. 
In the LP /LP STEREO position, the output of VCF 1 is sent to the input of VCA 1, and 
the output of VCF 2 is sent to the input of VCA 2. In the HP / LP PARALLEL position, 
the summed output of VCF 1 and VCF 2 is sent to the input of both VCA 1 and VCA 2.
VCA 1 CV IN
A control signal connected here will determine the output level of VCA 1. 
Normally, this control signal comes from one of the Envelope Generators, 
as determined by the setting of the VCA MODE  switch. 
With the VCA MODE switch set to ENV or SPLIT, this jack can accept an -8V to 
+8V signal that will control the level of sound prior to its arrival at VCA 1. In either 
setting, applying an LFO to this input can be used to create a tremolo effect. 
With the VCA MODE switch set to DRONE, a control signal (0V to +8V) applied 
here will set the level of VCA 1 from minimum (0V) to maximum (+8V) level. 
CV INPUT:  -8V to +8V ( VCA MODE  switch set to  ENV or SPLIT ); 0V to +8V ( VCA 
MODE switch set to  DRONE )
OUTPUT (Continued)

---PAGE 31---
31
VCA 2 CV IN
A control signal connected here will determine the output level of VCA 2. 
Normally, this control signal comes from the Amplitude Envelope Generator. 
With the VCA MODE switch set to ENV or SPLIT, this jack can accept an -8V to 
+8V signal that will control the level of the signal at the input of VCA 2. In either 
setting, applying an LFO to this input can be used to create a tremolo effect.
With the VCA MODE switch set to DRONE, a control signal (0V to +8V) applied 
here will set the level of VCA 2 from minimum (0V) to maximum (+8V) level.  
CV INPUT:  -8V to +8V ( VCA MODE  switch set to  ENV or SPLIT ); 0V to +8V ( VCA 
MODE switch set to DRONE )
PARAPHONY
Information regarding paraphonic functionality and multi-triggering can be found on Page 50-51 .
OUTPUT (Continued)

---PAGE 32---
32
The Stereo Delay is, in fact, two individual BBD-based analog delays that 
share certain parameters. In the Matriarch signal path, the Stereo Delay is 
positioned after VCA 1 and VCA 2, and before the MAIN AUDIO  outputs.
 
MODULE PROVENANCE: Matriarch’s Stereo Delay module is based on the 
Moog 500 Series Analog Delay module.
TIME
This parameter sets the initial delay time for both Delay 1 and Delay 2. 
The range is from 35 milliseconds with the TIME  knob rotated fully 
counterclockwise, to 780 milliseconds with the TIME  knob rotated fully 
clockwise. The LED indicator below the TIME  knob will flash at the current 
Time setting.
TIP: Utilizing Tap Tempo or through patching, much longer Delay Times can be 
achieved. This will result in noisy or “lo-fi” delay trails that may or may not be desirable. 
NOTE: When Matriarch is sync’d to an internal or external clock, rotating the TIME  
knob will adjust the delay time in divisions or multiplications of the clock rate (BPM).
SPACING
The SPACING knob creates an offset in the delay time of Delay 1 relative to 
Delay 2. This knob is bipolar, so in the center position the timing of Delay 1 and 
Delay 2 remain the same. Turning this knob clockwise from center increases (+) 
the delay time of Delay 1 relative to Delay 2. Turning this knob counterclockwise 
from center decreases (-) the delay time of Delay 1 relative to Delay 2.
NOTE: When Matriarch is sync’d to an external clock, rotating the SPACING  knob will 
adjust the delay time of Delay 1 in divisions or multiplications of the clock rate (BPM). 
NOTE: If the TIME  knob is already at its highest level, raising the value of the SPACING  
knob may have little effect.
STEREO DELAY


---PAGE 33---
33
FEEDBACK
Feedback routes a portion of the Stereo Delay’s output back to its input, 
to build multiple repeats and a cascade of delay trails. Feedback is variable 
from single to infinite repeats, and everything in between. 
NOTE: FEEDBACK  knob settings above approximately 2 O’clock will cause the Stereo 
Delay to self-oscillate, which may or may not be desirable. 
TIP: Setting the FEEDBACK  knob at the brink of self-oscillation creates a musically 
expansive wash of sound.
MIX
The balance between the output of the VCAs and the output of the Stereo 
Delay is controlled by the MIX knob, acting as a crossfader between the two 
signals before the combined signal is sent to Matriarch’s many audio outputs. 
In the fully counterclockwise position, there is no Stereo Delay signal present 
in the MAIN OUTPUTS . In the fully clockwise position, only the output of the 
Stereo Delay module is heard.
SYNC / TAP
This button has two functions, or modes of operation: SYNC  and TAP. 
SYNC
Press and release the yellow SYNC / TAP button to enter SYNC mode. When 
On (lit yellow), the delay time of the Stereo Delay module will be synchronized 
to an external or internal (ARP / SEQ) clock signal. While in the SYNC mode, 
the yellow SYNC / TAP button will remain lit, and the LED indicator below the 
TIME knob will switch from red to green if sync’d to the Arp / Sequencer master 
clock, or yellow if sync’d to an external analog signal. To exit SYNC mode, press 
and release the SYNC / TAP button a second time. The SYNC /TAP button will 
go dark, and the LED indicator below the TIME knob will return to red.
TAP
The TAP mode (or Tap Tempo mode) allows the delay time to be set by feel 
using a few button taps at the desired rate. To enter TAP mode, press and hold 
the SYNC /TAP button until it is lit, and release it. Then, tap the SYNC / TAP 
button three or more times in a row at a relatively consistent rate to establish a 
new tempo. The SYNC / TAP button will flash at the same tempo, while the red 
LED indicator below the TIME  knob will flash at the current clock division rate.  
The tempo can be modified at any time by tapping the SYNC / TAP button a 
minimum of three times at the new tempo. To exit TAP mode, press and hold 
the SYNC / TAP button until it goes dark.
  
PING PONG
Pressing the blue PING PONG  button sets the Stereo Delay into Ping Pong 
mode, which causes the delayed signal to alternate between the Left and 
Right output channels, so long as Feedback is being applied. The PING PONG  
button will remain lit (blue) while the Delay module is in Ping Pong mode.
NOTE: Technically, the output of Delay 1 is fed to the input of Delay 2, and the output 
of Delay 2 is fed back to the input of Delay 1, etc. 
STEREO DELAY (Continued)

---PAGE 34---
34
STEREO DELAY (Continued)
STEREO DELAY PATCH POINTS
The Stereo Delay module features both Audio and 
Control signal inputs. The Audio inputs override 
and replace the normal hardwired audio connections. 
The Control inputs are summed with the current 
value of their corresponding panel knobs.
NOTE: Additional Stereo Delay patch points are located 
on the rear panel.
INPUT 1
Normally, the input to Delay 1 comes from VCA 1. An audio signal connected 
the INPUT 1 jack replaces the VCA 1 signal, and will be processed by the first 
delay module (Delay 1). The output of Delay 1 will appear at the left channel 
of all associated outputs.
AUDIO INPUT: 10V peak-to-peak (-5V to +5V)
NOTE: The MIX knob controls the balance between the output of the VCAs and the 
output of the Stereo Delay module.
INPUT 2
Normally, the input to Delay 2 comes from VCA 2. An audio signal connected 
the INPUT 2 jack replaces the VCA 2 signal, and will be processed by the 
second delay module (Delay 2). The output of Delay 2 will appear at the right 
channel of all associated outputs.
AUDIO INPUT:  10V peak-to-peak (-5V to +5V)
NOTE: The MIX knob controls the balance between the output of the VCAs and the 
output of the Stereo Delay module.
FB CV IN (Feedback Control Voltage Input)
The value of a Control signal connected to this input will be summed with the 
current position of the FEEDBACK  knob to determine the amount of Feedback 
for Delay 1 and Delay 2.
CV INPUT: -5V to +5V
NOTE: A control signal connected to the FB 2 CV IN jack on the rear panel will control 
the Feedback amount of Delay 2 independently from Delay 1. In this case, a control 
signal connected to the FB CV IN jack on the front panel will only affect the Feedback 
amount of Delay 1.
TIP: Connecting a modulation source to the FB CV IN jack, and a “dead patch” to the 
FB CV 2 IN jack on the rear panel will prevent the modulation signal from reaching 
Delay 2. A dead patch is a cable connected to a patch point with no connection on 
the opposite end, used to interrupt normalized signal paths.

---PAGE 35---
35
MIX IN
The value of a Control signal connected to this input will be summed with the 
current position of the MIX  knob to determine the balance between the dry  
(unprocessed) audio signal, and the wet  (processed) audio signal.
CV INPUT:  -5V to +5V
TIME 1 IN
A Control signal connected to this input will modulate the delay time of 
Delay 1, separate from the timing of Delay 2. 
CV INPUT:  -5V to +5V
NOTE: With DELAY CV SYNC BEND on, and Tap Tempo or Sync activated in the Delay 
module, a voltage applied to the TIME 1 IN and TIME 2 IN jacks will “bend” the Delay 
Time relative to the nominal sync’d tempo. This allows for smooth time modulation while 
sync’d, which creates some very interesting effects. With DELAY CV SYNC BEND off, 
and Tap Tempo or Sync engaged in the Stereo Delay Module, a control voltage applied 
to this input will cycle through clock divisions of the current tempo.
TIME 2 IN
A Control signal connected to this input will modulate the delay time of Delay 2. 
CV INPUT: -5V to +5V
NOTE: With DELAY CV SYNC BEND on, and Tap Tempo or Sync activated in the Delay 
module, a voltage applied to the TIME 1 IN and TIME 2 IN jacks will “bend” the Delay 
Time relative to the nominal sync’d tempo. This allows for smooth time modulation 
while sync’d, which creates some very interesting effects. With DELAY CV SYNC BEND  
off, and Tap Tempo or Sync engaged in the Stereo Delay Module, a control voltage 
applied to this input will cycle through clock divisions of the current tempo.
STEREO DELAY (Continued)

---PAGE 36---
36
Modulation is a vital facet of synthesizer performance and sound design. 
In short, whenever one signal is used to change the value of another– it 
is known as modulation. Modulation can come from a number of sources– 
the Envelope Generators, Keyboard Tracking, an audio Oscillator (FM), 
or a dedicated Modulation oscillator such as the one found here. Based 
upon an analog oscillator that operates in the low-frequency range 
(Low Frequency Oscillator or LFO), the Modulation module can apply 
modulation to multiple destinations at once, and in varying amounts. 
In addition to the hardwired modulation routings that can be addressed 
using the panel controls, Noise and S/H (Sample and Hold) are available 
as patchable modulation sources, as is the signal specified by the 
WAVEFORM and RATE knob settings. 
NOTE: A second, simple LFO can be found in the Utilities 2 module. 
NOTE: The PITCH AMT, CUTOFF AMT , and PULSE WIDTH AMT knobs are 
used to specify the maximum amount of modulation to be applied to specific 
parameters. In order to actually apply the modulation and hear the effect, 
the MOD wheel must be raised from its minimum position.
 
RATE
The Rate, or speed, of the Modulation oscillator can be set from .07 Hz to 
1.3 kHz using the RATE knob. The LED indicator below this knob will flash 
at the current Rate setting.
TIP: Hold the SHIFT  button while adjusting the Modulation RATE  knob to fine-tune 
the Modulation rate.
WAVEFORM
This six-position knob is used to select the Waveform for the Modulation 
oscillator. The choices are Sine, Sawtooth, Ramp, Square, Staircase, and 
Smooth Random.
NOTE: The Staircase waveform is a stepped Triangle wave. While the Triangle wave 
itself is determined by the Modulation RATE  knob, the stepped values are sampled 
and held with each rising pulse of the ARP / SEQ clock, as determined by the 
ARP / SEQ RATE  knob. 
PITCH AMT (Amount)
Applying modulation to the pitch of an oscillator can create anything from 
a gentle vibrato to a vast cascade of notes. The PITCH AMT  knob determines 
the maximum amount of modulation that will be applied to the Pitch of the 
selected oscillators when the MOD  wheel is at its maximum position.
MODULATION

---PAGE 37---
37
PITCH MOD ASSIGN (1&3, All, 2&4)
Using this three-position switch, the amount of Pitch Modulation set using the 
PITCH AMT knob (above) can be assigned to all of the Matriarch oscillators, 
to Oscillators 1 & 3 only, or to Oscillators 2 & 4 only. The latter two options 
can be extremely useful in the 2-Note Paraphonic mode.
1&3 
In this mode, modulation will be applied to the pitch of Oscillator 1 and 
Oscillator 3 only.
TIP: Applying modulation to Oscillators 1 and 3 only allows the other two oscillators 
(2 and 4) to remain firmly on pitch, preserving the tonality of the melody.
ALL 
In this mode, Modulation will be applied equally to the pitch of all Oscillators.
2&4
In this mode, Modulation will be applied to the pitch of Oscillator 2 and 
Oscillator 4 only.
TIP: The 2 & 4 selection allows two pairs of sync’d oscillators to be played in the 
2-Voice Paraphonic mode. Oscillator 2 can be sync’d to Oscillator 1, and Oscillator 4 
can be sync’d to Oscillator 3. Applying modulation will increase the depth of the 
Sync effects, without altering the pitch of Oscillator 1 and Oscillator 3.
CUTOFF AMT (Amount)
The CUTOFF AMT knob determines the maximum amount of modulation that 
will be applied to the Cutoff frequency of the Filter when the MOD  wheel is at 
its maximum position.
PULSE WIDTH AMT (Amount)
The PULSE WIDTH AMT knob determines the maximum amount of modulation 
that will be applied to the Pulse Width of the Square and Narrow Pulse waves 
in the Oscillators module when the MOD  wheel is at its maximum position.
NOTE: Pulse Width Modulation (PWM) can only be applied to an oscillator when 
a Square or Narrow Pulse wave is selected as the current waveform. Pulse Width 
Modulation continuously varies the duty cycle, or pulse width, of these waves, 
causing the harmonic content to continuously vary as well.
MODULATION (Continued)

---PAGE 38---
38
MODULATION PATCH POINTS
Control signals connected to the RATE IN and SYNC IN 
patch point jacks can set the rate and reset the starting 
point of the Modulation oscillator. In addition, three 
patch point output jacks deliver Noise, S/H (Sample and 
Hold), and the selected Wave as control sources that 
can be used to modulate any controllable parameter. 
RATE IN
A control signal connected to the RATE IN  jack will determine the frequency 
of the Modulation oscillator.
CV INPUT:  -5V to +5V (1V/Oct)
TIP: Patch from the KB OUT jack on the rear panel to the RATE IN jack and adjust the 
RATE knob accordingly to allow the Modulation oscillator to be “played” like an oscillator.
SYNC IN
A gate or trigger signal received at the SYNC IN  jack will reset the Modulation 
oscillator wave to its starting point, which allows for more predictable, 
syncopated or creative use of the Modulation oscillator.
CV INPUT:  Rising signal > 2.5 Volts will create a reset trigger. (0V to +10V)
NOISE OUT
The output of the internal White Noise generator is available at the 
NOISE OUT jack, both as a modulation source, and as an audio signal.
CV/AUDIO OUTPUT: -8V to +8V
NOTE: A High Pass Filter (HPF) can be applied to the white noise signal using the 
Global Settings, allowing the low frequency harmonic content of the noise signal to 
be adjusted.
S/H OUT
Sample and Hold (S/H) is a stepped modulation effect, often used to “pulse” 
the Cutoff frequency of a Low Pass filter with random values. At the beginning 
of every modulation wave cycle, the Noise generator is sampled to acquire a 
random value that can be used to modulate another parameter. That stream 
of Sample and Hold values is available via this output.
CV OUTPUT: -8V to +8V
MODULATION (Continued)

---PAGE 39---
39
S/H OUT (Continued)
TIP: A control or gate signal received at the SYNC IN jack will reset the Modulation 
oscillator to the beginning of its wave cycle, meaning the Sample and Hold feature can 
be stepped by an external trigger or gate. Try patching from the GATE OUT jack in the 
ARP / SEQ module to the SYNC IN jack, and set the RATE  knob to its minimum value. 
This will allow you to use the keyboard to step through Sample and Hold values with 
each key press, or each new step of the Arpeggiator or Sequencer.
NOTE: There is no internal routing to use the Sample and Hold generator, so it 
must be patched from this jack to a specific destination in order for it to modulate 
another parameter.
WAVE OUT
The signal available here, either as a modulation source or an audio source, 
is determined by the current value of the modulation WAVEFORM  knob, 
the modulation RATE knob, and any other control signals connected to the 
modulation generator.
CV OUTPUT: 10V peak-to-peak (Select -5V to +5V)
MODULATION (Continued)

---PAGE 40---
40
Matriarch is equipped with two Utilities modules. Each is filled with an assortment of 
tools that are key to the exploration of modular synthesis. A signal can be split and 
sent to multiple locations, multiple signals can be merged together, and individual 
signals can be attenuated and inverted.
This first Utilities module (1) includes a four-way MULT  jack, and two identical 
inverting Attenuators. 
TIP: Each Attenuator can also be used as a Ring Modulator, generating an output signal related 
mathematically to two input signals. Ring modulation is often used to create metallic and 
inharmonic sounds. Try patching from the WAVE OUT  jack of Oscillator 1 to the Attenuator’s 
INPUT jack, and from the WAVE OUT  jack of Oscillator 2 to the same Attenuator’s CV IN jack. 
The OUTPUT jack will provide a composite ring modulated signal. Rotate the ATTENUATOR 
knob to “tune” the ring modulation. This will change the offset value applied to the CV IN jack, 
changing the symmetry of the ring modulated signal. Set the ATTENUATOR  knob to the 
12 O’clock position for a clean, traditional ring mod sound.
 
 
 
 
 
 
MULT (Unbuffered)
The Mult consists of four jacks wired together in parallel. Connecting an 
audio or control signal to one of the MULT jacks allows it to then be sent to 
three different locations. Additionally, Matriarch has been designed so that 
all of the audio and control signals available via the output patch points can 
be passively mixed using these MULT jacks. In this way, multiple modulation 
sources can be applied to a single modulation destination, for example.   
 
MULT: Four jacks wired in parallel (Unbuffered)
ATTENUATOR (Inverting)
An Attenuator can reduce the strength of a control signal to provide more 
accuracy when modulating the value of a specific parameter. Equipped with 
an INPUT jack and an OUTPUT  jack, each Attenuator can also deliver both 
normal and inverted values. In the center position, the ATTENUATOR  knob 
provides its full effect, and the signal arriving at the Attenuator INPUT  jack is 
fully attenuated. Raising the value clockwise from center will provide less and 
less attenuation, until the full scale of the input signal is restored and passed 
through unaffected. Lowering the value counterclockwise from center will 
provide less and less attenuation of the inverted signal, until the full value 
of the inverted signal is restored at the full counterclockwise position. 
NOTE: Negative (or inverse) modulation simply flips the control signal, so that any 
control signal previously raising the value of a parameter would now be lowering it.
UTILITIES (1)

---PAGE 41---
41
INPUT
Any audio or control signal connected to this jack will be fed into the Attenuator.
CV/AUDIO INPUT: -8V to +8V
NOTE: An 8-Volt DC source is normalled to the input of each Attenuator. With nothing 
connected to the INPUT  jack, a voltage is present at the Attenuator’s OUTPUT  jack that 
is based on the position of the ATTENUATOR  knob, and any control signal applied to 
the Attenuator CV IN jack.
OUTPUT
This OUTPUT jack delivers the attenuated version of the signal connected to 
the Attenuator INPUT jack.
CV OUTPUT:  -8V to +8V
NOTE: The Utilities (1) module contains two Attenuators that can act independently, 
or together in a cascade fashion. In most cases, you will want to patch in and out of 
each Attenuator separately. However, if no connection is made to the OUTPUT jack of 
Attenuator 1, the output of Attenuator 1 will be summed with the output of Attenuator 2, 
and a mixed signal of both outputs will be available via the Attenuator 2 OUTPUT jack. 
In this case, both Attenuators can be used together as a type of voltage-controlled bipolar 
mixer. Connecting a control signal to the CV IN jack of either Attenuator will act to control 
the balance of the mixed Attenuator 1 and Attenuator 2 signal available at the OUTPUT 
jack of Attenuator 2.
 
TIP: Each Attenuator input is normalled to an 8-Volt DC source. With no connections 
made to the INPUT jack and the OUTPUT jack of Attenuator 1, adjusting the ATTENUATOR 
knob of Attenuator 1 will affect the final output signal of Attenuator 2. Connecting a 
patch cable to the OUTPUT jack of Attenuator 1 will prevent the output of Attenuator 1 
from reaching Attenuator 2.
CV IN
A control signal received here is added to the value of the ATTENUATOR knob 
to determine the final amount of attenuation.
CV INPUT: -8V to +8V
UTILITIES (1) (Continued)

---PAGE 42---
42
Matriarch is equipped with two Utilities modules. Each is filled with an assortment of 
tools that are key to the exploration of modular synthesis. A signal can be split and 
sent to multiple locations, multiple signals can be merged together, and individual 
signals can be attenuated and inverted.
This second Utilities module (2) includes a four-way MULT  jack, one inverting 
Attenuator, and an auxiliary LFO (Low Frequency Oscillator) modulation source.
TIP: Each Attenuator can also be used as a Ring Modulator, generating an output signal related 
mathematically to two input signals. Ring modulation is often used to create metallic and 
inharmonic sounds. Try patching from the WAVE OUT  jack of Oscillator 1 to the Attenuator’s 
INPUT jack, and from the WAVE OUT  jack of Oscillator 2 to the same Attenuator’s CV IN jack. 
The OUTPUT jack will provide a composite ring modulated signal. Rotate the ATTENUATOR  
knob to “tune” the ring modulation. This will change the offset value applied to the CV IN jack, 
changing the symmetry of the ring modulated signal. Set the ATTENUATOR  knob to the 12 
O’clock position for a clean, traditional ring mod sound.
 
 
MULT (Unbuffered)
The Mult consists of four jacks wired together in parallel. Connecting an 
audio or control signal to one of the MULT jacks allows it to then be sent to 
three different locations. Additionally, Matriarch has been designed so that 
all of the audio and control signals available via the output patch points can 
be passively mixed using these MULT jacks. In this way, multiple modulation 
sources can be applied to a single modulation destination, for example.  
MULT: Four jacks wired in parallel (Unbuffered)
ATTENUATOR (Inverting)
An Attenuator can reduce the strength of a control signal to provide more 
accuracy when modulating the value of a specific parameter. Equipped with 
an INPUT jack and an OUTPUT  jack, each Attenuator can also deliver both 
normal and inverted values. In the center position, the ATTENUATOR  knob 
provides its full effect, and the signal arriving at the Attenuator INPUT  jack is 
fully attenuated. Raising the value clockwise from center will provide less and 
less attenuation, until the full scale of the input signal is restored and passed 
through unaffected. Lowering the value counterclockwise from center will 
provide less and less attenuation of the inverted signal, until the full value 
of the inverted signal is restored at the full counterclockwise position. 
NOTE: Negative (or inverse) modulation simply flips the control signal, so that any 
control signal previously raising the value of a parameter would now be lowering it.
UTILITIES (2)

---PAGE 43---
43
UTILITIES (2) (Continued)
INPUT
Any audio or control signal connected to this jack will be fed into the Attenuator.
CV/AUDIO INPUT: -8V to +8V
NOTE: An 8-Volt DC source is normalled to the input of each Attenuator. With nothing 
connected to the INPUT  jack, the voltage present at the Attenuator’s OUTPUT  jack is 
based on the position of the ATTENUATOR  knob, and any control signal applied to the 
Attenuator  CV IN jack.
OUTPUT
This OUTPUT jack delivers the attenuated version of the signal connected to 
the Attenuator INPUT jack.
CV OUTPUT: -8V to +8V
NOTE: The Utilities (2) module contains one Attenuator. Two more Attenuators are 
available in the Utilities (1) module. 
CV IN
A control signal received here is added to the value of the ATTENUATOR knob 
to determine the final amount of attenuation.
CV INPUT: -8V to +8V
PATCHABLE LFO
This LFO (Low Frequency Oscillator) provides Matriarch with a patchable 
modulation source separate from the Modulation oscillator. Two waveforms, 
Triangle and Square, are available simultaneously, and the rate of the LFO 
can be modulated via control voltage.
RATE
The Rate, or speed, of the LFO can be set from .07 Hz to 520 Hz using the RATE 
knob. The LED indicator below this knob will flash at the current Rate setting.
RATE IN
A control signal connected to the RATE IN  jack will be added to the value of 
the LFO RATE knob to determine the final LFO Rate.
CV INPUT:  -8V to +8V
NOTE: Applying a control voltage to the RATE IN jack will allow the LFO to exceed the 
maximum 520 Hz available via the LFO RATE knob, and reach frequencies of up to 
approximately 620 Hz.


---PAGE 44---
44
TRI OUT
The frequency of the Triangle wave available here, either as a modulation 
source or an audio source, is determined by the current value of the LFO RATE 
knob, plus or minus the value of any signal connected to the RATE IN jack.
CV OUTPUT: 10V peak-to-peak
SQUARE OUT
The frequency of the Square wave available here, either as a modulation 
source or an audio source, is determined by the current value of the LFO RATE 
knob, plus or minus the value of any signal connected to the RATE IN jack.
CV OUTPUT: 10V peak-to-peak
The Arpeggiator and multi-bank Sequencer are powerful tools for creation 
and live performance. In addition to the controls found in this module, the 
Arpeggiator and Sequencer also rely on the PLAY, HOLD,  and TAP buttons 
located on the Left-Hand Controller panel. This module also contains the 
CV OUT, VELOCITY OUT, GATE OUT, and ARP RATE / DIV IN patch points.
ARPEGGIATOR
The Arpeggiator takes the notes being held on the keyboard, and plays 
them one at a time in a repeating, rhythmic pattern. This is useful for creating 
swooping cascades of notes, building a rhythmic base, or for generating new 
and fun musical ideas. Matriarch allows you to select the order in which the 
notes are played, and also provides the option of repeating the pattern in 
different octaves.
SEQUENCER
The step-style Sequencer can record, save and playback 12 unique sequences 
containing up to 256 steps per sequence. A step is comprised of up to four 
notes, and may also feature other musical additions, such as a Tie or Ratchets. 
NOTE: Sequence memory is retained even when Matriarch is powered off.
UTILITIES (2) (Continued)
ARP / SEQ


---PAGE 45---
45
RATE
The RATE knob sets the playback speed of the Arpeggiator and the Sequencer, 
with a tempo range of 20 – 280 BPM (Beats Per Minute). The accompanying 
LED flashes at the current Rate setting. If Matriarch is sync’d to MIDI, External 
Clock, or Tap Tempo, the RATE knob will select timing values that are musical 
subdivisions of this external tempo.
TIP: The Rate of the Sequencer or Arpeggiator can also be set by pressing the TAP 
button a few times at the desired tempo. The yellow TAP  button will remain lit, 
indicating that Matriarch is operating in Tap Tempo mode. To exit Tap Tempo mode, 
press and hold the TAP button for about one second, or until it goes dark.
NOTE: Pressing the SHIFT button while turning the RATE knob selects triplet note values.
MODE
The MODE switch selects whether the Arpeggiator or the Sequencer is currently 
active. A third position places the Sequencer into Record mode.
ARP (Arpeggiator)
With the MODE switch in the ARP position, the Arpeggiator is active. Pressing the 
PLAY button on the Left-Hand Controller will arm the Arpeggiator, while pressing 
one or more notes will cause the Arpeggiator to begin playing. 
SEQ (Sequencer)
With the MODE switch in the SEQ position, the Sequencer is active. Pressing 
the PLAY button on the Left-Hand Controller will arm the Sequencer, while 
pressing a note will cause the Sequencer to begin playing. The note pressed 
will also determine the key, or starting note of the sequenced pattern. 
REC (Record)
With the MODE switch in the REC position, the Sequencer is armed for recording. 
Notes, Rests, Ties, and Ratchets can be entered into the current sequence.
WARNING:  Sequences are automatically saved to the currently selected location. 
Shifting the MODE  switch to REC  with the Sequencer stopped, and entering a new 
Note or Rest will permanently overwrite the sequence previously saved to that location.
TIP: If the MODE  switch is shifted to the REC  position while the Sequencer is running, 
pressing a new note (Rest, Tie, etc.) will replace the previous data for that step, 
allowing a sequence to be updated in real time.
ARP / SEQ (Continued)


---PAGE 46---
46
DIRECTION
The DIRECTION switch selects the order in which arpeggiated or sequenced 
notes are played. The same setting may have a different result based on 
whether the Arpeggiator or Sequencer is active. 
ORD (Order)
ARPEGGIATOR 
Arpeggiated notes will play in the same order they were originally played on 
the keyboard.
SEQUENCER 
Sequenced notes will play in the same order they were originally recorded.
FW / BW (Forward / Backward)
ARPEGGIATOR Mode
Arpeggiated notes will first play in the same order they were originally played 
on the keyboard from beginning to end. Those same notes will then be played 
in reverse order from end to beginning.
SEQUENCER Mode
Sequenced notes will first play in the same order they were originally recorded 
from beginning to end. Those same notes will then be played in reverse order 
from end to beginning.
NOTE: In the FW / BW position, the last note of the forward pattern will be played 
again as the first note of the backward pattern; the last note of the backward pattern 
will be played again as the first note of the forward pattern. 
RND (Random)
ARPEGGIATOR Mode
Arpeggiated notes will play back in random order.
SEQUENCER Mode
Sequenced notes will play back in random order.
NOTE: In the RND position, each sequence step is played as a random event, so 
steps with rests, ties, and ratchets may cause the sequence to play in an unexpected 
rhythmic pattern.
OCT / BANK (Octave Range / Sequence Bank Select)
The setting of the OCT / BANK switch produces different results, depending 
on whether the Arpeggiator or the Sequencer has been selected. With the 
MODE switch set to the ARP position, the OCT / BANK switch specifies the 
number of octaves that will be used to play an arpeggiated pattern. With the 
MODE switch set to the SEQ or REC position, this switch specifies which of the 
three Banks of sequences is selected.
ARP / SEQ (Continued)

---PAGE 47---
47
OCT / BANK (Continued)
1
ARPEGGIATOR Mode (1 Octave)
Only the original notes played will be arpeggiated. 
SEQUENCER Mode (BANK 1)
BANK 1 is chosen as the sequence source.
2
ARPEGGIATOR Mode (2 Octave)
The arpeggiated pattern is played, and then repeated one octave higher 
than the original.
SEQUENCER Mode (Bank 2)
BANK 2 is chosen as the sequence source.
3
ARPEGGIATOR Mode (3 Octaves)
The arpeggiated pattern is played, then repeated one octave higher than 
the original, and then two octaves higher than the original.
SEQUENCER Mode (Bank 3)
BANK 3 is chosen as the sequence source.
SEQUENCE
Matriarch provides a total of 12 sequence locations across three user-selectable 
Banks. This four-position SEQUENCE  knob is used to select one of the four 
available sequences within the currently selected Bank as the active sequence.
REST, TIE, RATCHET
When the MODE switch is set to the REC position, data may be 
entered into the currently selected sequence. Each sequence 
step can contain up to four notes played on the keyboard, a 
rest, a tie or ratchet(s), entered using these three buttons.
NOTE: The number of notes that can be entered into the Sequencer 
simultaneously per-step is determined by the VOICE MODE switch. 
REST
Press the blue REST button to enter a Rest for the current 
sequence step. A Rest is used to create a musical silence in 
place of a note for one or more steps in a sequence.  The blue 
REST button will stay lit until the next step is entered into the 
sequence. During playback, the REST  button will light 
to indicate a rest step in the sequence.
(Continued on page 48) 
ARP / SEQ (Continued)

---PAGE 48---
48
REST, TIE, RATCHET (Continued) 
TIE
Press the green TIE button to enter a Tie for the current sequence step. A Tie is used to string two 
or more individual sequence steps together as if they were played legato-style. The green TIE  button 
will stay lit until the next step is entered into the sequence. During playback, the TIE  button will light 
to indicate a tied step in the sequence. 
NOTE: If the same note is tied together multiple times in a row, it will be heard during playback as if that one 
note is being held continuously. If different notes are tied together, the transition between notes will be heard 
as legato-style playing. This can be especially useful when using Legato Glide.
NOTE: When step recording: hold SHIFT  + press the TIE  button to duplicate the current step. This function copies 
the note(s) from the current step to the next step and ties them together, advancing the sequence by one step for 
each SHIFT + TIE press. This makes it easy to program longer notes and chords into your sequences. 
TIP: With the VOICE MODE switch set to  1 (mono mode), it is also possible to enter a Tie between notes directly 
from the keyboard. While recording, simply play a second note while still holding down the first note; the green  
TIE button will light, indicating a tie has been entered. 
 
RATCHET
Press the yellow RATCHET button one or more times in a row to add Ratchets to the current sequence 
step. A Ratchet (sometimes referred to as note-repeat) allows a note to be played multiple times within 
a single sequence step. Up to eight Ratchets can be entered per sequence step. This is a powerful way 
to add rhythmic variation and complex timing to a sequence. During playback, the RATCHET  button 
will light to indicate a Ratchet step in the sequence.
ARP / SEQ PATCH POINTS
The patch points located in the ARP / SEQ module 
relate to the note data played by the Arpeggiator 
and the Sequencer. 
NOTE: Additional ARP / SEQ patch points are found on 
the rear panel.
NOTE: There are additional jacks for the Control Voltage, 
Gate, Velocity, and Aftertouch data generated by the 
Keyboard on the rear panel.
ARP RATE / DIV IN
A control signal received here modulates the value of the ARP / SEQ Rate 
based on the current position of the RATE  knob.
NOTE: When sync’d, pressing the SHIFT  button while turning the RATE knob selects 
triplet note values.
CV INPUT: -5V to +5V
ARP / SEQ (Continued)

---PAGE 49---
49
VELOCITY OUT
The control signal available at this output is based on the Velocity of the notes 
entered into the Arpeggiator or Sequencer with the keyboard.
CV OUTPUT: 0V to +5V (0V to +10V selectable via Global Settings)
CV OUT
The control voltage available at this output jack is the same used to specify 
the pitch of the Oscillators being played by the Arpeggiator or Sequencer.
CV OUTPUT: -5V to +5V (0V to +10V selectable via Global Settings)
NOTE: The Arpeggiator and Sequencer can be disconnected from the Oscillators 
in the Global Settings so that it can be patched independently from the keyboard.  
GATE OUT
During Arpeggiator or Sequencer playback, a Gate signal will be produced 
for the duration of each note, and available via this jack.
GATE OUTPUT: +5V (+10V selectable via Global Settings)
ARP / SEQ LHC CONTROLS
The Left-Hand Controller is where you will find additional 
controls related to the Arpeggiator and Sequencer.
PLAY
The green PLAY button acts as a toggle to arm and disarm 
the playback of the Arpeggiator or Sequencer. This button 
will remain lit when the Sequencer or Arpeggiator is armed. 
Press the notes to be arpeggiated, or the starting note of 
the sequence to begin playback.
ARP / SEQ (Continued)
HOLD
The blue HOLD button acts as a latch for the Arpeggiator 
or Sequencer. This button will remain lit as long as the Hold 
function is engaged. When the HOLD button is engaged 
(lit), the arpeggiated or sequenced pattern will continue to 
play, even after your hand is lifted from the keyboard. In the 
Arpeggiator mode, notes played while other notes are being 
held on the keyboard will be added to an arpeggiated pattern. 
Notes played after all fingers have been lifted from the 
keyboard will begin a new pattern. In the Sequencer mode, 
playing a note on the keyboard still specifies the root note, 
or key, of the sequenced pattern.  
NOTE: HOLD  button acts like a Sustain Pedal (KB Hold) when Arp/
Seq is not running. 

---PAGE 50---
50
TAP
Using the yellow TAP button, the playback tempo of the Arpeggiator or Sequencer can be entered 
using a series of successive button taps. Once a Tempo has been entered using the TAP  button, this 
button will remain lit.
As long as the yellow TAP button is lit (indicating a tempo has been entered using this method), 
turning the RATE knob in the ARP / SEQ module will select note-value clock divisions of this tempo. 
Pressing the SHIFT button while turning the RATE knob selects Triplet and Dotted note values.
NOTE: If an external clock is detected and in use, the tap-tempo operation will have no effect.
PARAPHONY
The VOICE MODE switch and the MULTI TRIG (Multiple Trigger) button 
determine the behavior of the Matriarch sound engine when more than one 
key is played on the keyboard at the same time. Matriarch can be played as 
a monophonic, 2-note paraphonic, or 4-note paraphonic analog instrument. 
Each mode has its own advantages.
  
ABOUT PARAPHONY
When we speak of a monophonic synthesizer, we think of an instrument 
with the ability to play one note at a time; when we speak of a polyphonic 
synthesizer, we think of an instrument capable of playing multiple notes 
simultaneously. Paraphonic synthesizers fall somewhere in between, allowing 
the pitch of each oscillator to be played independently, but with all oscillators 
then sharing a common signal path from the Mixer section and beyond 
(VCF, VCA, etc.), just as on a monophonic synthesizer. 
NOTE: Each Oscillator includes a dedicated pre-mixer Gate that is triggered with 
each new note press, allowing the output of an oscillator to be muted when not in use. 
PARAPHONIC SIGNAL FLOW
OSC  1
OSC  2
OSC  3
OSC  4
NOISE
ARP / SEQ (Continued)
PARAPHONY

---PAGE 51---
51
VOICE MODE
The VOICE MODE switch selects whether Matriarch will play as a 1-Voice 
monophonic synthesizer, as a 2-Note paraphonic synthesizer, or as a 4-Note 
paraphonic synthesizer.
1 (One-Note Monophonic)
In this mode, all four oscillators are played from a single key on the keyboard. 
2 (Two-Note Paraphonic)
In this mode, two keys can be played on the keyboard simultaneously. The first 
key pressed will play Oscillator 1 and Oscillator 2; the second key pressed will 
play Oscillator 3 and Oscillator 4.
TIP: The PITCH MODULATION ASSIGN switch in the Modulation module can be 
extremely useful in this mode. Oscillator 2 can be sync’d to Oscillator 1, and Oscillator 4 
can be sync’d to Oscillator 3. Applying modulation will increase the depth of the Sync 
effects without altering the pitch of Oscillator 1 and Oscillator 3.
4 (Four-Note Paraphonic)
In this mode, up to four keys can be played on the keyboard simultaneously. 
Each key will play only one oscillator.
NOTE: When all keys are released, the first new note pressed will sound Oscillator 1; 
the next will sound Oscillator 2, etc.
TIP: Try experimenting with the VOICE MODE switch during Sequencer and 
Arpeggiator playback.
MULTI TRIG (Multiple Triggering)
This button determines how the Envelope Generators will respond to each new 
note press on the keyboard. When the red MULTI TRIG  button is Off (unlit), 
the Envelope Generators will not retrigger until all keys on the keyboard are 
released, and a new key is played. If the red MULTI TRIG button is On (lit) 
the Envelope Generators will retrigger each time a new key is played on the 
keyboard.
TIP: In the One-Note Monophonic mode turn on the MULTI TRIG feature to eliminate 
legato triggering, ensuring every note played will trigger the Envelope Generators.
PARAPHONY (Continued)

---PAGE 52---
52
Matriarch’s rear panel expands the instrument as a powerful tool for 
interconnective expression. Process external sound sources, grow your 
Moog semi-modular family, or control a Eurorack modular system with ease.
REAR PANEL

---PAGE 53---
53


---PAGE 54---
54
The rear panel of your Matriarch is populated with various audio, control, MIDI and USB jacks, as well as 
a global fine turning knob, power switch, the DC power connection jack, and a Kensington security slot.
FINE TUNE
The global tuning (± 1 semitone) for all Matriarch oscillators is controlled by 
the FINE TUNE knob. 
KENSINGTON SECURITY SLOT
Your Matriarch can be securely attached to a desk, stand, or other fixture 
by connecting a Kensington security device to this slot on the rear panel.
DC POWER CONNECTION JACK
The barrel end of the included power adapter plugs into this 12V DC 
power jack. Plug the other end of the included power adapter into a 
suitable AC outlet. 
POWER SWITCH
This switch acts as a toggle, turning the power to the Matriarch On or Off. Press 
the top portion of the switch to turn Matriarch On; press the bottom portion of 
the switch to turn Matriarch Off.
AUDIO JACKS
The AUDIO section of the rear panel contains all of the main audio outputs in Line, Headphone, 
and Eurorack formats, as well as an instrument input that feeds into the Mixer module’s signal path.
REAR PANEL

---PAGE 55---
55
MAIN OUTS
Connect Matriarch to an amplifier, monitoring system, or 
audio interface using the 1/4” MAIN OUT LEFT (MONO) 
and MAIN OUT RIGHT jacks to enjoy sounds in stereo. 
If this is not possible, the MAIN OUT LEFT (MONO) jack 
is normalled to provide a mono mix of both the Left and 
Right channels when nothing is connected to the MAIN 
OUT RIGHT jack.
AUDIO OUTPUTS:  +4dBu
NOTE: The MAIN OUT jacks will work with both TS and TRS 
1/4” cables.
HEADPHONE VOLUME / HEADPHONE OUT
Connecting a pair of stereo headphones to the 1/4” 
HEADPHONE OUT  jack allows for private listening and 
cueing up of new sounds in a live setting. The volume level 
of the HEADPHONE OUT  jack is controlled only by the 
adjacent HEADPHONE VOLUME knob, and is unaffected 
by the MAIN VOLUME knob on the front panel.  
AUDIO OUTPUT:  TRS output; 1.1V into a 16 Ohm load
INSTRUMENT IN
A monaural audio signal from another instrument (guitar, drum machine, 
synthesizer, etc.) can be connected to Matriarch via this 1/4” input. An audio 
signal applied to this input is then fed directly into the Mixer module to be 
processed along with the onboard audio sources. 
AUDIO INPUT:  Instrument-level TS input with +20dB of gain
EURO OUT
These outputs provide a duplicate of the audio signal 
emerging from the MAIN OUT LEFT (MONO) and the 
MAIN OUT RIGHT jacks, but at Eurorack levels, so that 
Matriarch can be processed by or integrated with a 
Eurorack modular system.
AUDIO OUTPUTS:  10V peak-to-peak
NOTE: The EURO OUT (L) and EURO OUT (R) outputs are 
unaffected by the MAIN VOLUME knob in the Output module.
 
REAR PANEL (Continued)

---PAGE 56---
56
STEREO DELAY JACKS
The STEREO DELAY section of the rear panel relates 
to the operation and control of the Stereo Delay. 
Other jacks and controls for the Stereo Delay are 
found on the front panel.
DELAY OUTS
The audio signals available at these outputs is the 100% 
wet output of the individual Delay modules – Delay 1 and 
Delay 2. By default, the output of Delay 1 is available at the 
DELAY OUT (L) jack; the output of Delay 2 is available at 
the DELAY OUT (R) jack. 
AUDIO OUTPUTS:  10V peak-to-peak
SYNC IN
With the yellow SYNC button On (lit), the Stereo Delay Time will sync to the 
rising edges of a clock or control signal received here. In this case, the Stereo 
Delay TIME knob on the front panel will select divisions or multiples of the 
sync’d clock rate.
CV INPUT: A rising signal > 3.6 Volts will create a Sync pulse.
DELAY FB 2 CV IN
The value of the CV signal received via this jack is summed with the current 
value of the FEEDBACK knob in the Stereo Delay module on the front panel, 
and is then used to modulate the Feedback amount for Delay 2 only.
CV INPUT: 0V to +8V
NOTE: The FB CV IN jack on the front panel will normally modulate the Feedback amount 
of Delay 1 and Delay 2 by the same amount. By connecting a control signal to the FB 2 CV IN 
jack, the Feedback modulation of Delay 1 and Delay 2 can be controlled individually. 
The FB CV IN jack on the front panel will affect the Feedback amount of Delay 1, and 
the FB 2 CV IN jack on the rear panel will affect the Feedback amount of Delay 2.
KEYBOARD JACKS
REAR PANEL (Continued)

---PAGE 57---
57
KEYBOARD JACKS (Continued)
Matriarch both accepts and creates a number of keyboard control signals that can greatly enhance 
performance. In addition to jacks accepting a Sustain Pedal and an Expression Pedal, this area of 
the rear panel provides CV (Control Voltage) outputs for keyboard performance elements including 
velocity, aftertouch, gate, mod wheel position, etc.
SUS PEDAL IN (Sustain Pedal Input)
When depressed, a compatible sustain pedal equipped with a 1/4” TS (Tip/
Sleeve) plug and connected here will continue to hold any keys already being 
held down on the keyboard, even after the keys are released. The VCA EG 
and the VCF EG will complete their Attack and Decay stages, and hold at the 
Sustain level until the pedal is released, causing the Release stage to begin.
SUSTAIN INPUT: Depressing a Normally Open Sustain Pedal will short the tip to ground.
 
EXP PEDAL IN (Expression Pedal Input)
This 1/4” TRS (Tip/Ring/Sleeve) jack provides a +5 Volt signal on the ring 
connector. Operating a compatible Expression pedal – such as the Moog EP-3 – 
connected to this jack will attenuate this voltage so it can be used to vary 
any controllable parameter.
EXPRESSION INPUT:  Scaled by the Expression Pedal, then buffered and scaled to 
come out of the EXP CV OUT .
EXP CV OUT (Expression Pedal CV Out)
The signal from the expression pedal is buffered, and 
is then made available at the EXP CV OUT jack, where 
it can be routed to control the value of any parameter, 
either internal to Matriarch or on any other synthesizer 
or Eurorack module.
CV OUTPUT:  0V to +8V
KB VEL OUT (Keyboard Velocity CV Out)
The Matriarch keyboard generates a control-voltage signal based on the 
Velocity of notes played on the keyboard. The signal available here can be 
routed to any controllable parameter, either internal to Matriarch or on any 
other synthesizer.
CV OUTPUT: 0V to +5V (0V to +10V selectable via Global Settings)
KB AT OUT (Keyboard Aftertouch CV Out)
The Matriarch keyboard generates an Aftertouch control-voltage signal 
based on the pressure applied to any keys that are already being held down. 
The signal available here can be routed to any controllable parameter, either 
internal to Matriarch or on any other synthesizer.
CV OUTPUT:  0V to +5V (0V to +10V selectable via Global Settings)
REAR PANEL (Continued)

---PAGE 58---
58
MOD WHL OUT (Modulation Wheel CV Out)
The position of the MOD wheel generates a control-voltage signal that is 
available here. The signal available here can be routed to any controllable 
parameter, either internal to Matriarch or on any other synthesizer.
CV OUTPUT:  0V to +5V (0V to +10V selectable via Global Settings)
KB CV OUT (Keyboard CV Out)
The Matriarch keyboard generates a control-voltage signal based on the note 
being played on the keyboard. The signal available here can be routed to any 
controllable parameter, either internal to Matriarch or on any other synthesizer.
CV OUTPUT:  -5V to +5V (0V to +10V selectable via Global Settings) 
KB GATE OUT (Keyboard Gate Out)
The Matriarch keyboard generates a control-voltage signal based on the note 
being held on the keyboard. The signal available here can be routed to any 
controllable parameter, either internal to Matriarch or on any other synthesizer.
GATE OUTPUT: +5V (+10V selectable via Global Settings)
ARP/SEQ JACKS
This group of jacks is dedicated to synchronizing the 
Arpeggiator or Sequencer with other analog instruments.
 
 
CLOCK IN
This input allows Matriarch to be synchronized to an external clock source such 
as a DFAM, Mother-32, or any other instrument that outputs clock sync. When 
the input of a clock’s rising edge is detected, the Sequencer or Arpeggiator 
pattern is advanced by one step. In this mode, the RATE  knob selects timing 
values that are clock divisions of the external tempo.
CV INPUT: Rising signal > 3.6V will create a Sync pulse.
NOTE: Matriarch can also receive Clock information via MIDI.
REAR PANEL (Continued)

---PAGE 59---
59
ON / OFF IN
By default, a signal received here will arm and disarm the playback of the 
Arpeggiator or Sequencer. Press the notes to be arpeggiated, or the starting 
note of the sequence, to begin playback. 
CV INPUT:  < 1V = Stop ; > 3.6V = Start  
RESET IN
A signal received here will force the Arpeggiator or Sequencer to immediately 
reset to the first step, without stopping.
CV INPUT: A rising signal > 2.5V will create a Reset pulse 
NOTE: The first step in a sequence or Arpeggiation will be played repeatedly for as 
long as a voltage is applied to this input. 
CLOCK OUT
This output allows Matriarch to transmit clock sync to other instruments while 
the Arpeggiator or Sequencer is running. The Clock Out rate is determined 
by the ARP / SEQ master tempo, and the global Clock Out PPQN setting. 
Accessing the Global Settings can allow the clock signal to be sent at all times.
CV INPUT:  0V to 10V
TIP: Matriarch can also send Clock information via MIDI.
MIDI PORTS
Matriarch can share MIDI signals with other MIDI-equipped devices via these 5-pin DIN style jacks. 
Matriarch can also share MIDI information with a computer via USB. 
NOTE: Firmware updates 
are delivered via USB.
MIDI IN
The MIDI IN port can receive MIDI messages sent from an external source.
NOTE: The MIDI LED will blink when a MIDI signal is present at this input.
REAR PANEL (Continued)


---PAGE 60---
60
MIDI PORTS (Continued)
MIDI THRU
The MIDI signal received at the MIDI IN port is passed along unchanged 
via this MIDI THRU port.
 
MIDI OUT
By default, MIDI signals created by and originating with Matriarch can be 
shared with other MIDI compatible equipment via this MIDI OUT  port.
 
MIDI (LED)
This MIDI indicator lamp will blink to confirm that Matriarch is receiving 
MIDI data at the MIDI IN  port
USB
Matriarch can also send and receive MIDI signals via USB, allowing 
integration with computer-based DAW systems, etc. In addition, 
Matriarch firmware updates are delivered via USB.
REAR PANEL (Continued)


---PAGE 61---
61
GLOBAL SETTINGS
 
Most Matriarch front-panel controls relate to creating sound. Below the surface, there is another level 
of parameters known as the Global Settings, which determine how the instrument operates, and how 
it can connect and interact with other electronic instruments and audio equipment. 
 
To access Matriarch’s Global Settings, simultaneously press and hold the HOLD [SHIFT] button 
located in the Left-Hand Controller and the SYNC ENABLE button located in Oscillator 1 until the 
SYNC ENABLE button begins to blink. This indicates that Matriarch is in the Global Settings edit mode. 
Now you can use the keyboard commands listed below to make any needed changes to the Global 
Settings. The SYNC ENABLE button will blink a specific number of times to indicate which Global 
Setting is currently selected. When you have finished making any changes, simply press the SYNC 
ENABLE button to exit the Global Settings edit mode.
Once you are in the Global Settings edit mode, you can freely select different groups and parameters 
using the black keys, and can switch the value of the selected parameters by using the white keys, until 
you press the SYNC ENABLE button to exit. Double-tapping on a white key will both update the setting 
and exit the Global Settings edit mode simultaneously.
 
NOTE: Global Settings are retained even when the power has been turned off.
 
HERE’S HOW IT WORKS:
Global Settings are organized in groups of ten. An individual parameter in the chosen group is selected 
using one of the lower 10 black keys, starting with C#0. The white keys, starting with C0, are used 
to set the value of the chosen parameter. The first 10 parameters are in the default group, and no 
group selection is required. Additional groups are selected using one of the upper black keys, starting 
with C#2. To access these additional parameters, hold down the Group Select key while pressing the 
individual Parameter Select key.
C0 D0 E0 F0 G0 A0 B0 D1 E1 F1 G1 A1 B1 D2 E2 F2 G2 A2 B2 D3 E3 F3 G3 A3 B3
C#0 D#0 F#0 G#0 A#0 D#1 F#1 G#1 A#1 D#2 F#2 G#2 A#2 D#3 F#3 G#3 A#3
C1
C#1
C2
C#2
C3 C4
C#3

---PAGE 62---
62
Global Parameters
Default Group (Group 0)
Group Select 
Key
Parameter
Select Key
Sync Enable 
Button Blinks
0.1 Note Priority (none) C#0 1 x
Note Priority selects which note will take priority when playing the Matriarch keyboard in monophonic mode. The 
choices are the highest note played, the lowest note played, or the most recently played note. Use the first three 
white keys to select LOW (C0), HIGH (D0), or LAST (E0).The default setting is LAST.
0.2 Glide Type (none) D#0 2 x
Glide Type determines the behavior of the Glide function.
LCR (Linear Constant Rate): The Glide time is dependent on the interval between notes; the larger the 
interval, the longer the delay time. This is the most commonly used type of Glide.
LCT (Linear Constant Time): The Glide time remains the same, regardless of the interval between notes.
EXP (Exponential):  The Glide rate follows an exponential curve that begins with a fast rate, and slows as it 
nears the target note. Use the first three white keys to select L CR (C0), LCT (D0), or EXP (E0). The default 
setting is LCR.
0.3 Gated Glide (none) F#0 3 x
Gated Glide causes the gradual gliding between notes to be started and stopped by the keyboard gate. 
When gated glide is On, the pitch CV only glides while a key is held. When Gated Glide is Off, the pitch CV 
will continue gliding to the target pitch at the current Glide rate, regardless of whether or not a key is held on 
Matriarch. The different behaviors are more distinct at longer glide times. Use the lowest two white keys to 
select OFF (C0), or ON (D0). The Default is ON.
0.4 Pitch Bend Range (none) G#0 4 x
The effective pitch bend range of the Matriarch  PITCH wheel can be set in semitone units, from 0 to 12. Twelve 
semitones is equal to one octave. Use the lowest 13 white keys to select the corresponding number of semitones 
from zero/none (C0) to 12 (A1). The Default is 2 semitones ( E0).
0.5 Pitch Variance (none) A#0 5 x
Pitch Variance adds an adjustable amount of controlled randomness to the tuning of each note. The actual 
amount of detuning is applied randomly to each note, from zero (no detuning), up to ± 40 cents of detuning 
per note. The maximum amount of detuning is set by this Pitch Variance parameter. Use any of the white keys 
to specify the maximum Pitch Variance value in 1.4 cent units, from zero ( C0) to 40 cents (C4). The 
Default value is zero (C0).
0.6 Oscillator Frequency Knob Range (none) C#1 6 x
The range of the Oscillator 2, 3, and 4 FREQUENCY  knobs can be limited or expanded to a specific number of 
semitones, from zero to 24. Use the lowest 25 white key s (C0 to F3) to set the range from 0 to 24 semitones 
(two octaves). The Default is 7 semitones (a musical Perfect Fifth).
0.7 Square LFO Polarity (none) D#1 7 x
The square wave signal available from the Modulation section can be set to Unipolar – having only positive 
modulation above the zero line, or Bipolar – having equal amounts of both positive and negative modulation. 
Use the lowest two white keys to select Unipolar ( C0) or Bipolar (D0). The Default is Bipolar. 

---PAGE 63---
63
(Continued)
Global Parameters
Default Group (Group 0)
Group Select 
Key
Parameter
Select Key
Sync Enable 
Button Blinks
0.8 Noise Filter Cutoff (none) F#1 8 x
Matriarch uses a 1-pole high-pass filter (VCF) to control the tonality and coloration of the analog Noise generator. 
Low-end content is removed as the filter cutoff frequency is increased. Use any of the white keys to set the 
cutoff frequency of the Noise Filter, from lowest ( C0) to highest (C4). The Default is the lowest setting ( C0).
0.9 Delay Filter Brightness (none) G#1 9 x
The output of the Stereo Delay can be set to either a Bright tone or a Dark tone.
Use the lowest two white keys to select Dark ( C0), or Bright (D0). The Default is Bright ( D0).
0.10 Delay Sync CV Bend (none) A#1 10 x
The Delay Sync CV Bend parameter sets the behavior of the TIME CV inputs when the Delay is synchronized 
to internal or external clock.  With Delay CV Sync Bend On, the TIME CV inputs “bend” the Delay Time relative 
to its currently synchronized tempo, up to plus-or-minus 33%. This can be useful for adding choral motion 
or warble to synchronized Delay effects. With Delay CV Sync Bend Off, the TIME CV inputs work identically 
to the front-panel TIME  and SPACING knobs, selecting tempo-synced clock divisions of the of the currently 
synchronized tempo. Use the lowest two white keys to select OFF ( C0), or ON (D0). The Default is OFF.
Global Parameters
Group 1
Group Select 
Key
Parameter
Select Key
Sync Enable 
Button Blinks
1.1 MIDI Input Channel C#2 C#0 1 x / 1 x
Matriarch can send and receive data on any MIDI Channel, from 1 to 16. Use the first 16 white keys ( C0 to D2) to 
select the corresponding MIDI Input Channel (1 to 16).
1.2 MIDI Output Channel C#2 D#0 1 x / 2 x
Matriarch can send and receive data on any MIDI Channel, from 1 to 16. Use the first 16 white keys ( C0 to D2) to 
select the corresponding MIDI output channel (1 to 16).
1.3 MIDI Echo (USB) C#2 F#0 1 x / 3 x
MIDI Echo USB allows MIDI data received at the USB MIDI input to be re-transmitted via the USB MIDI output,
the DIN MIDI output, or both. Use the first four white keys to select OFF ( C0), DIN OUTPUT ( D0), USB 
OUTPUT (E0), or DIN & USB OUTPUTS ( F0). The default is OFF (C0).
1.4 MIDI Echo (DIN) C#2 G#0 1 x / 4 x
MIDI Echo DIN allows MIDI data received at the DIN MIDI  input to be re-transmitted via the DIN MIDI  output, 
the USB MIDI output, or both. Use the first four white keys to select OFF ( C0), DIN OUTPUT ( D0), USB 
OUTPUT (E0), or DIN & USB OUTPUTS ( F0). The default is OFF (C0).

---PAGE 64---
64
(Continued)
Global Parameters
Group 1
Group Select 
Key
Parameter
Select Key
Sync Enable 
Button Blinks
1.5 MIDI Clock Input C#2 A#0 1 x / 5 x
The Matriarch Sequencer and Arpeggiator can be set to follow MIDI Clock, and can respond to Start and Stop 
commands received via MIDI. Depending on your setup, you may wish for Matriarch to ignore some of these 
commands. Use the first three white keys to select FOLLOW MIDI CLOCK + MIDI START/STOP COMMANDS (C0), 
FOLLOW MIDI CLOCK ONLY (Ignore MIDI Start/Stop commands) (D0), or IGNORE ALL MIDI CLOCK + MIDI 
START/STOP COMMANDS (E0). The Default is FOLLOW MIDI CLOCK + MIDI START/STOP COMMANDS.
1.6 MIDI Clock Output C#2 C#1 1 x / 6 x
The Matriarch Sequencer and Arpeggiator can be set to output MIDI Clock, as well as MIDI Start and Stop 
commands. Depending on your setup, you may wish for Matriarch to not send some of these commands. Use 
the first three white keys to select SEND MIDI CLOCK + MIDI START/STOP COMMANDS ( C0), SEND MIDI 
CLOCK ONLY (Do not send MIDI Start/Stop commands) ( D0), or DO NOT SEND MIDI CLOCK + MIDI START/
STOP COMMANDS ( E0). The Default is SEND MIDI CLOCK + MIDI START/STOP COMMANDS.
1.7 Local Control (Keyboard) C#2 D#1 1 x / 7 x
The Matriarch Keyboard, Pitch, and Modulation wheels can be disconnected from the internal synth engine, 
while still outputting MIDI and CV/Gate data. Use the lowest two white keys to select Local Control (Keyboard) 
OFF (C0), or ON (D0). The Default is ON.
1.8 Local Control (Arp / Seq) C#2 F#1 1 x / 8 x
The Matriarch Arp / Sequencer module can be disconnected from the internal synth engine while still 
outputting MIDI and CV/Gate data. Use the lowest two white keys to select Local Control (Arp / Seq) OFF 
(C0), or ON (D0). The Default is ON.
1.9 Receive Program Change C#2 G#1 1 x / 9 x
MIDI Program Change commands (Program Numbers 1 through 12) can be used to load a previously saved 
Matriarch sequence, and make it the active sequence. Turning this Global Setting OFF will prevent errant 
Program Change commands from inadvertently activating a saved sequence. Use the lowest two white keys 
to select OFF (C0), or ON (D0). The Default is ON.
1.10 Send Program Change C#2 A#1 1 x / 10 x
Matriarch can be set to send a MIDI Program Change command (Program Numbers 1 through 12) when the 
OCT / BANK switch and SEQUENCE knob on the front panel are used to select and load a previously saved 
sequence from memory. Turning this Global Setting OFF will prevent Program Change commands from being sent 
when a sequence is selected. Use the lowest two white keys to select OFF (C0), or ON (D0). The Default is OFF.

---PAGE 65---
65
Global Parameters
Group 2
Group Select 
Key
Parameter
Select Key
Sync Enable 
Button Blinks
2.1 Arp / Seq Clock Input Mode D#2 C#0 2 x / 1 x
The CLOCK IN jack on the Matriarch rear panel can work in two different ways: as an analog clock input which 
sets the tempo of the Sequencer’s internal clock, or as a step-advance trigger input, which advances the 
Arpeggiator or Sequencer by one step each time a rising-edge trigger is detected at the CLOCK IN  jack.
Use the first two white keys to select CLOCK ( C0), or STEP-ADVANCE (D0). The Default is CLOCK.
2.2 Arp / Seq Clock Output D#2 D#0 2 x / 2 x
The Arp / Seq CLOCK OUT jack can be set to constantly send a clock pulse signal, or to send clock pulse signals 
only when the PLAY button is lit, and the playback of a sequence or Arpeggiator pattern is active. Use the first 
two white keys to select ALWAYS (C0), or ONLY WHEN PLAYING (D0). The Default is ONLY WHEN PLAYING.
2.3 Arp / Seq MIDI Output D#2 F#0 2 x / 3 x
Matriarch allows the note data generated by an arpeggio or sequence to be output via MIDI, or not. Use the  
first two white keys to select OFF ( C0), or ON (D0). The Default is ON.
2.4 Sequencer Transpose Mode D#2 G#0 2 x / 4 x
The playback of a sequence can be transposed in real time via two methods. The first simply transposes the 
sequence so that the first note of the pattern is the note being played on the keyboard. The second method 
assumes Middle C is correct key, and will playback the sequence as it was recorded when Middle C is played. 
So to transpose the sequence up a Fourth, hold down the F key above Middle C. To transpose the sequence 
down a Fifth, hold down the G below Middle C. Use the first two white keys to select FIRST NOTE ( C0), or 
MIDDLE C (D0). The Default is FIRST NOTE.
2.5 Sequence Keyboard Control D#2 A#0 2 x / 5 x
The keyboard and the Sequencer can operate together or independently. When Sequencer Keyboard Control 
is ON, pressing a key on the keyboard, or playing a MIDI note will start the sequence and set any transposition 
of the sequence. When Sequencer Keyboard Control is OFF, the Sequencer operates independently of the 
keyboard. The active sequence will play immediately at the original recorded pitch when the PLAY  button 
is pressed (lit), while notes played  on the Matriarch keyboard (or MIDI notes) can then play along with the 
Sequencer. Use the first two white keys to select OFF ( C0), or ON (D0). The Default is ON.
2.6 Sequence Keyed Restart D#2 C#1 2 x / 6 x
Sequence Keyed Restart determines the behavior of the Sequencer when Sequence Keyboard Control is ON. 
When restarting a sequence by playing a key on the keyboard (or a received MIDI note), the sequence can 
restart from the first note of the sequence (ON), or the sequence can resume playback from where it left off. Use 
the first two white keys to select OFF (C0), or ON (D0). The Default is ON.
2.7 Arp / Seq Keyed Timing Reset D#2 D#1 2 x / 7 x
The Arp / Seq Keyed Timing Reset changes how the Arpeggiator, the Matriarch master clock, and notes played 
on the keyboard will interact. When OFF, the Arpeggiator will remain locked to the Master Clock so that notes 
played ahead of the beat (prior to the next step) will wait for the next beat, or clock step, to sound. When ON, 
notes played on the keyboard will sound immediately, and the master clock will reset, or sync, to the timing of 
when the key was pressed. Use the first two white keys to select OFF ( C0), or ON (D0). The Default is OFF.

---PAGE 66---
66
(Continued)
Global Parameters
Group 2
Group Select 
Key
Parameter
Select Key
Sync Enable 
Button Blinks
2.8 FW / BW Repeat D#2 F#1 2 x / 8 x
When the DIRECTION  switch in the Arp / Seq module is set to FW / BW, this setting will determine whether the 
first and last notes of an arpeggio pattern or sequence are repeated as the direction changes. This can be handy 
both melodically and rhythmically. If Repeat is OFF, the three-note sequence [C-E-G] would play as [C-E-G-E-C-
E-G-E…]; if Repeat is ON, the same [C-E-G] sequence would now play as [C-E-G-G-E-C-C-E-G-G-E-C…]. Use the 
first two white keys to select OFF (C0), or ON (D0). The Default is ON.
2.9 Delay Sequence Change D#2 G#1 2 x / 9 x
The Global Setting for Delay Sequence Change determines how the Sequencer playback will transition from 
one sequence to another. When the Sequencer is running, changing from one sequence to another will take 
place instantly (Delay Sequence Change = OFF), or the active sequence will be allowed to finish before the 
new sequence begins (Delay Sequence Change = ON). Use the first two white keys to select OFF ( C0), or ON 
(D0). The Default is OFF.
2.10 ARP /SEQ Swing D#2 A#1 2 x / 10 x
Adding Swing to the playback of the Arpeggiator or Sequencer causes the offbeat to arrive Early or Late, 
in varying amounts, to change the rhythmic feel. Use any of the white keys to set the swing amount, in 2% 
increments. The range of available values is from 22% (offbeat at its earliest) using key ( C0), to 78% (offbeat 
at its latest) using key (C4). A Triplet feel, equal to a value of 66%, can be achieved using key ( D3). The Default 
value is 50% (no swing), or key (C2).
Global Parameters
Group 3
Group Select 
Key
Parameter
Select Key
Sync Enable 
Button Blinks
3.1 Clock Input PPQN F#2 C#0 3 x / 1 x
In order for the Matriarch Sequencer and Arpeggiator to sync correctly to an External Clock, this Global Setting 
allows you to specify how many pulses are received per quarter note (PPQN). Use the first fourteen white keys 
to choose the number of clock pulses received per quarter note. (C0) = 1 PPQN; (D0) = 2 PPQN; (E0) = 3 PPQN; 
(F0) = 4 PPQN; (G0) = 5 PPQN; (A0) = 6 PPQN; (B0) = 7 PPQN; (C1) = 8 PPQN; (D1) = 9 PPQN; (E1) = 10 PPQN; 
(F1) = 11 PPQN; (G1) = 12 PPQN; (A1) = 24 PPQN; (B1) = 48 PPQN. The Default is 4 PPQN (D0).
3.2 Clock Output PPQN F#2 D#0 3 x / 2 x
In order for an external device to sync correctly to the Matriarch Sequencer and Arpeggiator, this Global 
Setting allows you to specify how many pulses are sent per quarter note (PPQN). Use the first fourteen 
white keys to choose the number of clock pulses sent per quarter note. ( C0) = 1 PPQN; (D0) = 2 PPQN; 
(E0) = 3 PPQN; (F0) = 4 PPQN; (G0) = 5 PPQN; (A0) = 6 PPQN; (B0) = 7 PPQN; (C1) = 8 PPQN; (D1) = 9 PPQN; 
(E1) = 10 PPQN; (F1) = 11 PPQN; (G1) = 12 PPQN; (A1) = 24 PPQN; (B1) = 48 PPQN. The Default is 4 PPQN ( D0).

---PAGE 67---
67
(Continued)
Global Parameters
Group 3
Group Select 
Key
Parameter
Select Key
Sync Enable 
Button Blinks
3.3 KB CV OUT Range F#2 F#0 3 x / 3 x
The Matriarch keyboard generates a specific control voltage for every note played. The voltage range of this 
signal appears at the KB CV OUT jack on the Matriarch rear panel, and can be set to (-5V to +5V) or (0V to 
+10V) in order to accommodate another synthesizer or piece of electronic music gear. Use the first two white 
keys to select either -5V to +5V ( C0), or 0V to +10V (D0). The Default is -5V to +5V.
3.4 Arp/Seq CV OUT Range F#2 G#0 3 x / 4 x
The Matriarch Arpeggiator and Sequencer generate a specific control voltage for every note played. The 
voltage range of this signal appears at the CV OUT jack in the ARP / SEQ module on the front panel, and can 
be set to (-5V to +5V) or (0V to +10V) in order to accommodate another synthesizer or piece of electronic 
music gear. Use the first two white keys to select either -5V to +5V ( C0), or 0V to +10V (D0). The Default is 
-5V to +5V.
3.5 KB VEL OUT Range F#2 A#0 3 x / 5 x
The Matriarch keyboard generates a specific control voltage based on the dynamics of every note played. The 
voltage range of this signal appears at the KB VEL OUT jack on the rear panel, and can be set to (0V to +5V) 
or (0V to +10V) in order to accommodate another synthesizer or piece of electronic music gear. Use the first 
two white keys to select either 0V to +5V ( C0), or 0V to +10V (D0). The Default is 0V to +5V.
3.6 Arp/Seq VEL OUT Range F#2 C#1 3 x / 6 x
The Matriarch Arpeggiator and Sequencer generate a specific control voltage based on the dynamics of every 
note played. The voltage range of this signal appears at the VEL OUT  jack in the ARP / SEQ module on the 
front panel, and can be set to (0V to +5V) or (0V to +10V) in order to accommodate another synthesizer or 
piece of electronic music gear. Use the first two white keys to select either 0V to +5V ( C0), or 0V to +10V (D0). 
The Default is 0V to +5V.
3.7 KB AT OUT Range F#2 D#1 3 x / 7 x
The Matriarch keyboard generates a specific control voltage based on the amount of Aftertouch being 
applied. The voltage range of this signal appears at the KB AT OUT jack on the rear panel, and can be set to 
(0V to +5V) or (0V to +10V) in order to accommodate another synthesizer or piece of electronic music gear. 
Use the first two white keys to select either 0V to +5V ( C0), or 0V to +10V (D0). The Default is 0V to +5V.
3.8 MOD WHL OUT Range F#2 F#1 3 x / 8 x
The Matriarch Modulation (MOD) Wheel generates a specific control voltage based on its current position. 
The voltage range of this signal appears at the MOD WHL OUT jack on the rear panel, and can be set to 
(0V to +5V) or (0V to +10V) in order to accommodate another synthesizer or piece of electronic music gear. 
Use the first two white keys to select either 0V to +5V ( C0), or 0V to +10V (D0). The Default is 0V to +5V.

---PAGE 68---
68
(Continued)
Global Parameters
Group 3
Group Select 
Key
Parameter
Select Key
Sync Enable 
Button Blinks
3.9 KB GATE OUT Range F#2 G#1 3 x / 9 x
The Matriarch keyboard generates a specific control voltage, or gate, whenever a key is depressed. This 
gate voltage appears at the KB GATE OUT jack on the rear panel, and can be set to +5V or +10V, in order to 
accommodate another synthesizer or piece of electronic music gear. Use the first two white keys to select 
either +5V (C0), or +10V (D0). The Default is +5V.
3.10 Arp/Seq GATE OUT Range F#2 A#1 3 x / 10 x
The Matriarch Arpeggiator and Sequencer generate a specific control voltage, or gate, whenever a non-legato 
note is played. This gate voltage appears at the VEL OUT  jack in the ARP / SEQ module on the front panel, 
and can be set to +5V or +10V, in order to accommodate another synthesizer or piece of electronic music gear. 
Use the first two white keys to select either +5V ( C0), or +10V (D0). The Default is +5V.
Global Parameters
Group 4
Group Select 
Key
Parameter
Select Key
Sync Enable 
Button Blinks
4.1 Delayed Keyboard Octave Shift G#2 C#0 4 x / 1 x
The keyboard Octave Up/Down functions (SHIFT + PLAY buttons for Octave Down, and SHIFT + TAP buttons 
for Octave Up) can be set to take effect immediately, transposing any notes that are currently being held on the 
keyboard, or their effect can be delayed, meaning that any currently held notes will not be transposed, but new 
notes played after using the Octave Up/Down function will sound at the new octave. Use the lowest two white 
keys to select OFF (C0), or ON (D0). The Default is ON.
4.2 Round-Robin Mode G#2 D#0 4 x / 2 x
This voice-assignment mode uses a cyclical pattern to assign each new note to a different oscillator. There are 
three available values: Off ( C0), On with Reset (D0), and On (E0). When the value is set to Off, each new note 
is always assigned to lowest-numbered available oscillator. With the value set to On with Reset, the first note 
played is always assigned to Oscillator 1, and additional notes are assigned to the other remaining oscillators in 
a rotating fashion. With the value set to On, each note played is assigned to the next available oscillator. 
The Default is On with Reset ( D0).
4.3 Paraphonic Unison G#2 F#0 4 x / 3 x
When Paraphonic Unison is set to On, all four Matriarch oscillators will always sound, even when the 
PARAPHONY switch is set to VOICE MODE 2 or VOICE MODE 4, regardless of how many notes are held. When 
just one key is played, all four of the Matriarch oscillators will play from that key. When two keys are played, 
each key will play two of the Matriarch oscillators (1+2; 3+4). With the switch set to VOICE MODE 4, adding a 
third note assigns a new pitch to Oscillator 3, and adding a fourth note assigns a new pitch to Oscillator 4. Use 
the lowest two white keys to select OFF ( C0), or ON (D0). The Default is OFF.

---PAGE 69---
69
(Continued)
Global Parameters
Group 4
Group Select 
Key
Parameter
Select Key
Sync Enable 
Button Blinks
4.4 Update Unison on Note-Off G#2 G#0 4 x / 4 x
This Global Setting is only available while the Paraphonic Unison Global Setting is set to On. When the 
Update Unison on Note-Off setting is on, all four oscillators are reassigned to the notes which are still playing 
whenever a key is released. Use the lowest two white keys to select OFF ( C0), or ON (D0). The Default is OFF.
4.5 Restore Stolen Voices on Note-Off G#2 A#0 4 x / 5 x
When the PARAPHONY  switch is set to VOICE MODE 2 or VOICE MODE 4, as the number of keys played 
exceeds the current number of available voices, older notes are “stolen” and replaced by newer notes. 
However, when this Global Setting is set to On, the oscillator(s) can resume playing the pitch of these stolen 
notes – as long as their respective keys are still being held on the keyboard. This can be very beneficial in 
mixing mono and poly playing techniques, such as holding a three-note chord, while using the remaining voice 
to play a mono-style trill. Use the lowest two white keys to select OFF ( C0), or ON (D0). The Default is OFF.
4.6 Tuning Scale Select G#2 C#1 4 x / 6 x
Matriarch is fully compliant with the MIDI Tuning Standard, so you can import, save, and use tuning scales and 
intonation systems from around the world. Tuning scales can be accessed via MIDI messages, or by using this 
Global Setting to select a Tuning scale from the keyboards. The last Tuning scale selected will is remembered 
when the power is turned off and on again. Use any of the white keys to select a tuning table by number, from 
0 (C0) to 28 (C4). Tuning table 0 (C0) is permanently set to 12-Tone Equal Temperament. The default setting is 
tuning table 0 (C0).
4.7 Sequence Random Repeat G#2 D#1 4 x / 7 x
This parameter controls whether the Sequencer playback in Random direction will allow the same note/pitch 
to repeat on adjacent steps, or not. Use the lowest two white keys to select ALLOW REPEATS ( C0), or DO NOT 
ALLOW REPEATS (D0). The default is ALLOW REPEATS ( C0).
4.8 MIDI OUT Filter - Panel Knobs G#2 F#1 4 x / 8 x
(C0) = OFF, (D0) = ON (Default). This setting controls whether or not MIDI CC messages are output in response 
to changes made to the front panel controls.  ON is the setting that allows messages to be sent. When MIDI 
Out Filter - Panel Knobs is OFF, then no MIDI CC messages are output from Grandmother in response to panel 
control changes.
4.9 MIDI OUT Filter - Pitch/Mod Wheels G#2 G#1 4 x / 9 x
(C0) = OFF, (D0) = ON (Default). This setting controls whether or not MIDI CC messages are output in response 
to movement of the Pitch Wheel or Mod Wheel. ON is the setting that allows messages to be sent.  
4.10 MIDI OUT Filter – Keys G#2 A#1 4 x / 10 x
(C0) = OFF, (D0) = ON (Default). This setting controls whether or not MIDI Note messages are output in 
response to playing on the Grandmother keyboard. ON is the setting that allows MIDI notes to be sent.

---PAGE 70---
70
NOTE: Tuning scales are imported into Matriarch via MIDI, and can be sent from tuning software such as Scala, 
or the Moog Phatty Tuner. Matriarch supports the following MIDI TUNING STANDARD message types:
· Bulk Tuning Dump (128-note scales)
· Single-Note Tuning (retunes notes individually)
· Scale/Octave Types 5, 6, 8, 9 – 1-Byte and 2-Byte formats.
The official MIDI Tuning Standard description is part of The Complete MIDI 1.0 Detailed Specification PDF 
document, available free of charge at www.midi.org. You will be required to register at the site in order to 
access this document, and other information related to MIDI.
Global Parameters
Group 5
Group Select 
Key
Parameter
Select Key
Sync Enable 
Button Blinks
5.1 ARP/SEQ CV OUT Mirrors KB CV A#2 C#0 5 x / 1 x
(C0) = OFF (Default), (D0) = ON. This setting allows the CV OUT , GATE OUT, and VEL OUT jacks in the ARP/
SEQ section of the panel to reflect the KB CV OUT, KB GATE OUT, and KB VEL OUT signals any time the Arp/
Sequencer is not running. 
5.2 KB CV OUT Mirrors ARP/SEQ CV A#2 D#0 5 x / 2 x
(C0) = OFF (Default), (D0) = ON. This setting allows the KB CV OUT, KB GATE OUT, and KB VEL OUT jacks on 
the rear panel to reflect the CV/Gate signals generated by the Arpeggiator or Sequencer, any time the Arp/
Sequencer is running.
5.3 MIDI Velocity Curves A#2 F#0 5 x / 3 x
This feature allows the user to select a variety of keyboard velocity response curves. There are 4 options 
available. Use the following white keys to select the desired response curve: BASE ( C0), LINEAR (D0), HARD 
(E0), or SOFT (F0). The default is BASE.
Global Parameters
Group 10
Group Select 
Key
Parameter
Select Key
Sync Enable 
Button Blinks
10.1 Load Default Settings A#3 C#0 10 x / 1 x
This function resets all the global parameters to their default values. Hold the highest black key, and while 
holding it press the lowest black key. You will see the three buttons on the LHC blink rapidly for a moment to 
confirm that the reset happened. Resetting the global parameters also exits Global Edit mode.
10.2 Show Firmware Version A#3 D#0 10 x / 2 x
This function indicates the currently-installed firmware version, using the lights on the LHC  buttons. Hold the 
highest black key, and while holding it press the next-to-lowest black key ( D# 0). Count the number of times 
the PLAY, HOLD, and TAP buttons blink on/off to read the version number. PLAY = major version number, 
HOLD = minor version number, TAP = minuscule/bugfix version number.  Example: this version, v1.2.3: PLAY  
button blinks one time, then HOLD  button blinks two times, then TAP  button blinks zero times (does not light 
at all). 

---PAGE 71---
71
MIDI DOCUMENTATION
1 - Basic Information Transmit / 
Export
Recognize / 
Import Remarks
MIDI Channels 1 - 16 1 - 16
Note Numbers 0 - 127 0 - 127
Program Change 1 - 12 1 - 12 Selects saved sequences
Bank Select Response No No
Modes Supported:
Mode 1: Omni-On, Poly No No
Mode 2: Omni-On, Mono No No
Mode 3: Omni-Off, Poly Yes Yes
Mode 4: Omni-Off, Mono Yes Yes
Multi Mode No No
Note-On Velocity Yes Yes
Note-Off Velocity No No
Channel Aftertouch Yes Yes
Poly (Key) Aftertouch No No
Pitch Bend Yes Yes
Active Sensing No No
System Reset No No
Tune Request No No
Universal SysEx: Sample Dump 
Standard No No
Device Inquiry No Yes
File Dump No No
MIDI Tuning No Yes

---PAGE 72---
72
MIDI DOCUMENTATION (Continued)
1 - Basic Information Transmit / 
Export
Recognize / 
Import Remarks
Master Volume No No
Master Balance No No
Notation Information No No
Turn GM1 System On No No
Turn GM2 System On No No
Turn GM System Off No No
DLS-1 No No
File Reference No No
Controller Destination No No
Key-based Instrument Ctrl No No
Master Fine/Coarse Tune No Yes
Other Universal System 
Exclusive No No
Manufacturer or Non-
Commercial System Exclusive Yes* Yes* *No documentation for manufacturer 
sysex at this time (factory calibration etc)
NRPNs No No
RPN 00 
(Pitch Bend Sensitivity) No Yes
RPN 01 
(Channel Fine Tune) No Yes
RPN 02 
(Channel Coarse Tune) No Yes
RPN 03 
(Tuning Program Select) No Yes
Values 0-32 are valid; 0 = standard tuning 
(12-tone equal temperament). 1-32 are 
available for user storage of tunings using 
the MIDI Tuning Standard
RPN 04 
(Tuning Bank Select) No No
RPN 05 
(Modulation Depth Range) No No

---PAGE 73---
73
MIDI DOCUMENTATION (Continued)
2 - MIDI Timing and
Synchronization
Transmit / 
Export
Recognize / 
Import Remarks
MIDI Clock Yes Yes
Song Position Pointer No Yes
Song Select No No
Start Yes Yes
Continue No Yes
Stop Yes Yes
MIDI Time Code No No
MIDI Machine Control No No
MIDI Show Control No No
3 - Extensions Compatibility Transmit / 
Export
Recognize / 
Import Remarks
General MIDI Compatible
(Level(s) / No) No No
Is GM default power-up mode
(Level / No) No No
DLS Compatible
(Level(s) / No) No No
DLS File Type(s) / No No No
Standard MIDI Files
(Type(s) / No) No No
XMF Files (Type(s) / No) No No
SP-MIDI Compatible No No
MIDI Machine Control No No
MIDI Show Control No No

---PAGE 74---
74
MIDI DOCUMENTATION (Continued)
Parameter CC Number 
(MSB)
CC Number 
(LSB) Values
Mod Wheel 1 33 MIN TO MAX (0 TO 16383)
Mod Rate 3 35 MIN TO MAX (0 TO 16383)
Glide Time 5 37 MIN TO MAX (0 TO 16383)
Arp Rate 8 40 MIN TO MAX (0 TO 16383)
Noise Filter Cutoff 9 41 MIN TO MAX (0 TO 16383)
Delay Time 12 44 MIN TO MAX (0 TO 16383)
Delay Spacing 13 45 MIN TO MAX (0 TO 16383)
Arp Swing 14 46 MIN TO MAX (0 TO 16383)
Arp Gate Length 15 47 MIN TO MAX (0 TO 16383)
Osc 2 Frequency 16 48 MIN TO MAX (0 TO 16383)
Osc 3 Frequency 17 49 MIN TO MAX (0 TO 16383)
Osc 4 Frequency 18 50 MIN TO MAX (0 TO 16383)
Sustain Pedal 64 - 0-63 = OFF, 64-127 = ON
Glide On 65 - 0-63 = OFF, 64-127 = ON
Arp Latch 69 - 0-63 = OFF, 64-127 = ON
Arp Play 73 - 0-63 = OFF, 64-127 = ON
Osc 1 Octave 74 - 0-31 = 16', 32-63 = 8', 64-95 = 4', 96-127 = 2'
Osc 2 Octave 75 - 0-31 = 16', 32-63 = 8', 64-95 = 4', 96-127 = 2'
Osc 3 Octave 76 - 0-31 = 16', 32-63 = 8', 64-95 = 4', 96-127 = 2'
Osc 4 Octave 77 - 0-31 = 16', 32-63 = 8', 64-95 = 4', 96-127 = 2'
MIDI Continuous Controller (CC) Mapping:

---PAGE 75---
75
Parameter CC Number 
(MSB)
CC Number 
(LSB) Values
Hard Sync Enable 80 - 0-63 = OFF, 64-127 = ON
Osc 2 Sync 81 - 0-63 = OFF, 64-127 = ON
Osc 3 Sync 82 - 0-63 = OFF, 64-127 = ON
Osc 4 Sync 83 - 0-63 = OFF, 64-127 = ON
Portamento Control 84 - MIDI NOTE NUMBER OF A CURRENTLY- 
PLAYING NOTE TO TIE TO 
Glide Type 85 - 0-42 = LCR, 43-84 = LCT, 85-127 = EXP.
Gated Glide 86 - 0-63 = OFF, 64-127 = ON
Legato Glide 87 - 0-63 = OFF, 64-127 = ON
Delay Ping Pong 88 - 0-63 = OFF, 64-127 = ON
Delay Sync 89 - 0-63 = OFF, 64-127 = ON
Square LFO Polarity 90 - 0-63 = UNIPOLAR, 64-127 = BIPOLAR
Arp Mode 91 - 0-42 = ARP, 43-84 = SEQ, 85-127 = REC
Arp Pattern 92 - 0-42 = ORDER, 43-84 = FW/BW, 85-127 = 
RANDOM
Arp Range / Bank 93 - 0-42 = 1, 43-84 = 2, 85-127 = 3
Paraphony Voice Mode 94 - 0-42 = 1 VOICE, 43-84 = 2 VOICE, 85-127= 
4 VOICE
Multi Trig 95 - 0-63 = OFF, 64-127 = ON
KB Octave 105 - 0-25 = -2, 26-50 = -1, 51-76 = 0, 77-101 = +1, 
102-127 = +2
MIDI DOCUMENTATION (Continued)
MIDI Continuous Controller (CC) Mapping:

---PAGE 76---
76
EDITING PARAMETERS USING MIDI SYSEX MESSAGES
You can edit the global and some panel parameters using MIDI System Exclusive (SysEx) messages. The 
template for these SysEx messages is shown below.
TO SET A PARAMETER TO A VALUE:
F0 04 17 23 [Parameter ID], [value MSB], [value LSB], 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 [Unit ID] F7
• Values above are shown in hexadecimal format.
• If the intended parameter value is less than 128, then [value MSB] is 0 and [value LSB] is the intended   
 parameter value. If the intended parameter value is 128 or higher, then the value MSB is the intended   
 value divided by 128, and the value LSB is the remainder (intended value modulo 128).
• The Unit ID byte must be set to match the Unit ID of the synth you want to edit (all synths are set to   
 Unit ID 0 by default; this value will be 0 unless you change it) or set the Unit ID value to 0x7F to   
 address any Unit ID, or multiple units with different IDs sharing the same MIDI port.        
 • Note: The byte before Unit ID (byte 14 if counting from F0 = 0) must be set to zero or the message   
  will be ignored. This is because the same kind of SysEx message is output by the unit in reply to a   
  request to get the value of a parameter (see below). Replies output by the unit have the byte before   
  Unit ID set to 1, to avoid getting stuck in a MIDI feedback loop if these messages are echoed back
  to the unit.
TO REQUEST A PARAMETER VALUE:
F0 04 17 3E [Parameter ID] 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 [Unit ID] F7 
• Values above are shown in hexadecimal format.
• Unit ID must match the Unit ID of the Matriarch, or set Unit ID = 7F (all).
• The Matriarch will reply with a “set parameter” SysEx message for the requested Parameter ID with its   
 current value, with the byte before the Unit ID (byte 14 if counting from F0 = 0) set to 1 to indicate that  
 the message is a reply coming from the Matriarch.
Global parameters for sysex editing (values below are shown in decimal format):
Parameter ID Parameter Name Values
0 Unit ID 0-15 (Default: 0)
1 Tuning Scale 0-31 (Default: 0 / 12-TET)
2 Knob Mode 0 = Snap, 1 = Pass-Thru, 2 = Relative (Default: 2 / Relative)
3 Note Priority 0 = Low, 1 = High, 2 = Last Note (Default: 2 / Last Note)
4 Transmit Program Change 0 = Off, 1 = On (Default: 0 / Off)
5 Receive Program Change 0 = Off, 1 = On (Default: 1 / On)
6 MIDI Input Ports 0 = none, 1 = DIN only, 2 = USB only, 3 = Both (Default: 3 / 
Both DIN and USB)
7 MIDI Output Ports 0 = none, 1 = DIN only, 2 = USB only, 3 = Both (Default: 3 / 
Both DIN and USB)
8 MIDI Echo USB In
0 = Off, 1 = Echo USB In to DIN Out, 2 = Echo USB In to USB 
Out, 3 = Echo USB In to Both DIN and USB Out (Default: 0 
/ Off)
9 MIDI Echo DIN In
0 = Off, 1 = Echo DIN In to DIN Out, 2 = Echo DIN In to USB 
Out, 3 = Echo DIN In to Both DIN and USB Out (Default: 0 
/ Off)

---PAGE 77---
77
Parameter ID Parameter Name Values
10 MIDI Channel IN 0-15 = MIDI Channel 1-16 (Default: 0 / MIDI Channel 1)
11 MIDI Channel OUT 0-15 = MIDI Channel 1-16 (Default: 0 / MIDI Channel 1)
12 MIDI Out Filter - Keys 0 = OFF, 1 = ON (DEFAULT: 1 / ON)
13 MIDI Out Filter - Wheels 0 = Off, 1 = On (Default: 1 / On)
14 MIDI Out FIlter - Panel 0 = Off, 1 = On (Default: 1 / On)
15 Output 14-bit MIDI CCs 0 = Off, 1 = On (Default: 0 / Off)
16 Local Control: Keys 0 = Off, 1 = On (Default: 1 / On)
17 Local Control: Wheels 0 = Off, 1 = On (Default: 1 / On)
18 Local Control: Panel 0 = Off, 1 = On (Default: 1 / On)
19 Local Control: Arp/Seq 0 = Off, 1 = On (Default: 1 / On)
20 Sequence Transpose Mode 0 = Relative to First Note, 1 = Relative to Middle C 
(Default: 0 / First Note)
21 Arp/Seq Keyed Timing Reset 0 = Off, 1 = On (Default: 0 / Off)
22 Arp FW/BW Repeats 0 = Don’t Repeat end notes; 1 = Repeat end notes 
(Default: 1 / Repeat)
23 Arp/Seq Swing 0-16383 = 0 to 100% (Default: 8192 = 50% / no 
swing)
24 Sequence Keyboard Control 0 = Off, 1 = On (Default: 1 / On)
25 Delay Sequence Change 0 = Off, 1 = On (Default: 0 / Off)
26 Sequence Latch Restart 0 = Off, 1 = On (Default: 0 / Off)
27 Arp/Seq Clock Input Mode 0 = Clock, 1 = Step-Advance Trigger (Default: 0 / 
Clock)
28 Arp/Seq Clock Output 0 = Always, 1 = Only When Playing (Default: 1 / When 
Playing)
29 Arp MIDI Output 0 = Off, 1 = On (Default: 1 / On)
30 Send MIDI Clock 0 = Off, 1 = Only When Playing, 2 = Always (Default: 
0 / Off)
31 Send MIDI Start/Stop 0 = Off, 1 = On (Default: 0 / Off)
32 Follow MIDI Clock 0 = Off, 1 = On (Default: 1 / On)
33 Follow MIDI Start/Stop 0 = Off, 1 = On (Default: 1 / On)
34 Follow Song Position Pointer 0 = Off, 1 = On (Default: 1 / On)
Global parameters for sysex editing (cont’d):

---PAGE 78---
78
Parameter ID Parameter Name Values
35 Clock Input PPQN Index 0-15 (Default: 3 / sixteenth notes [4PPQN])
36 Clock Output PPQN Index 0-15 (Default: 3 / sixteenth notes [4PPQN])
37 Pitch Bend Range 
(Semitones) 0-12 (Default: 2)
38 Keyboard Octave Transpose 0-4 = -2 to +2 (Default: 2 / no transpose)
39 Delayed KB Octave 
Transpose 0 = Off, 1 = On (Default: 1 / On)
40 Glide Type 0 = Linear Constant Rate, 1 = Linear Constant Time, 2 
= Exponential (Default: 0 / LCR)
41 Gated Glide 0 = Off, 1 = On (Default: 1 / On)
42 Legato Glide 0 = Off, 1 = On (Default: 1 / On)
43 Osc 2 Freq Knob Range 0-24 Semitones (Default: 7)
44 Osc 3 Freq Knob Range 0-24 Semitones (Default: 7)
45 Osc 4 Freq Knob Range 0-24 Semitones (Default: 7)
46 Hard Sync Enable 0 = Off, 1 = On (Default: 0 / Off)
47 Osc 2 Hard Sync 0 = Off, 1 = On (Default: 0 / Off)
48 Osc 3 Hard Sync 0 = Off, 1 = On (Default: 0 / Off)
49 Osc 4 Hard Sync 0 = Off, 1 = On (Default: 0 / Off)
50 Delay Ping Pong 0 = Off, 1 = On (Default: 0 / Off)
51 Delay Sync 0 = Off, 1 = On (Default: 0 / Off)
52 Delay Filter Brightness 0 = Dark, 1 = Bright (Default: 1 / Bright)
53 Delay CV Sync-Bend 0 = Off, 1 = On (Default: 0 / Off)
54 Tap-Tempo Clock Division 
Persistence 0 = Off, 1 = On (Default: 0 / Off)
55 Paraphony Mode 0 = Mono, 1 = Duo, 2 = Quad (Default: 0 / Mono)
56 Paraphonic Unison 0 = Off, 1 = On (Default: 0 / Off)
57 Multi Trig 0 = Off, 1 = On (Default: 0 / Off)
58 Pitch Variance 0-400 = Off to +/- 40 cents in 0.1-cent increments. 
(Default: 0 / Off)
59 KB CV OUT Range 0 = -5V to +5V, 1 = 0V to 10V (Default: 0 / -5 to +5)
60 Arp/Seq CV OUT Range 0 = -5V to +5V, 1 = 0V to 10V (Default: 0 / -5 to +5)
61 KB VEL OUT Range 0 = -5V to +5V, 1 = 0V to 10V (Default: 0 / -5 to +5)
Global parameters for sysex editing (cont’d):

---PAGE 79---
79
Parameter ID Parameter Name Values
62 Arp/Seq VEL OUT Range 0 = -5V to +5V, 1 = 0V to 10V (Default: 0 / -5 to +5)
63 KB AT OUT Range 0 = -5V to +5V, 1 = 0V to 10V (Default: 0 / -5 to +5)
64 MOD WHL OUT Range 0 = -5V to +5V, 1 = 0V to 10V (Default: 0 / -5 to +5)
65 KB GATE OUT Range 0 = -5V to +5V, 1 = 0V to 10V (Default: 0 / -5 to +5)
66 Arp/Seq GATE OUT Range 0 = -5V to +5V, 1 = 0V to 10V (Default: 0 / -5 to +5)
67 Round-Robin Mode 0 = Off, 1 = First-Note Reset, 2 = On (Default: First-
Note Reset)
68 Restore Stolen Voices 0 = Off, 1 = On (Default: 0 / Off)
69 Update Unison on Note-Off 0 = Off, 1 = On (Default: 0 / Off)
70 Mod Oscillator Square Wave 
Polarity 0 = Unipolar, 1 = Bipolar (Default: 1 / Bipolar)
71 Noise Filter Cutoff 0-16383 = dark to bright (Default: 16383)
72 Arp/Seq Random Repeats
0 = no repeating notes/steps in RND direction, 1 = al -
low repeating notes (true random). Default: 1 / Allow 
Repeats
73 ARP/SEQ CV OUT Mirrors
KB CV 0 = Off, 1 = On (Default: 0 / Off)
74 KB CV OUT Mirrors ARP/SEQ 
CV 0 = Off, 1 = On (Default = 0/Off)
Global parameters for sysex editing (cont’d):

---PAGE 80---
80
SIGNAL FLOW
MOD
OSC MOD
WHEEL
VCA
INPUT 1
LEVEL
IN PUT 2
LEVEL
NOISE
SOURCE
OSC  2
OSC  3
OSC  4
OSC  1

---PAGE 81---
81
MOD
OSC MOD
WHEEL
VCA
INPUT 1
LEVEL
IN PUT 2
LEVEL
NOISE
SOURCE
OSC  2
OSC  3
OSC  4
OSC  1

---PAGE 82---
82
NOTE: The arrows entering jacks from the bottom are normalled input connections into the associated jack.
HP / LP SERIES
In this mode, VCF 1 is configured as a High Pass filter and VCF 2 is configured as a Low Pass filter. 
Signal passes from the Mixer module out into VCF 1 OUT (High Pass), and then is routed into VCF 2 IN 
(Low Pass). The mono output signal from VCF 2 feeds both VCA 1 IN and VCA 2 IN. 
NOTE: This is the foundation for creating a Band Pass filter.
LP / LP STEREO
In this mode, VCF 1 and VCF 2 function independently as Low Pass filters. Both receive the same signal 
from the Mixer module out. VCF 1 OUT is routed to VCA 1 IN, and VCF 2 OUT is routed to VCA 2 IN. 
This creates a true-stereo signal path to the outputs.
FILTER MODE SIGNAL FLOW
OSC 1
OSC 2
OSC 3
OSC 4
NOISE
MIX
MIX
MIX
MIX
OSC 1
OSC 2
OSC 3
OSC 4
NOISE

---PAGE 83---
83
HP / LP PARALLEL
In this mode, VCF 1 is configured as a High Pass filter and VCF 2 is configured as a Low Pass filter. 
Both receive the same signal from the Mixer module out, and their outputs are summed into a 
monaural signal that feeds both VCA 1 IN and VCA 2 IN. 
MIX
MIX
OSC 1
OSC 2
OSC 3
OSC 4
NOISE
FILTER MODE SIGNAL FLOW (Continued)

---PAGE 84---
84
PRESET NAME:
NOTES:
PRESET NAME:
NOTES:
Additional patch sheets can be downloaded at www.moogmusic.com.

---PAGE 85---
85
PRESET NAME:
NOTES:
PRESET NAME:
NOTES:

---PAGE 86---
86
Additional patch sheets can be downloaded at www.moogmusic.com.
PRESET NAME:
NOTES:
PRESET NAME:
NOTES:

---PAGE 87---
87
PRESET NAME:
NOTES:
PRESET NAME:
NOTES:

---PAGE 88---
88
Additional patch sheets can be downloaded at www.moogmusic.com.
PRESET NAME:
NOTES:
PRESET NAME:
NOTES:

---PAGE 89---
89
PRESET NAME:
NOTES:
PRESET NAME:
NOTES:

---PAGE 90---
90
TYPE: Semi-Modular Analog Synthesizer
SOUND ENGINE:  Analog
NUMBER OF KEYS:  49 Full-Size Keys
TYPE OF KEYS: Velocity + Aftertouch
NOTE: There are no hardwired connections for Velocity and Aftertouch; these control signals are available at the 
KB VEL OUT and KB AT OUT jacks found in the Keyboard section of the rear panel, and are also transmitted via MIDI.
OTHER CONTROLLERS: Pitch Bend, Mod Wheel, Variable Glide
POLYPHONY: One-Note Monophonic, Two-Note Paraphonic, Four-Note Paraphonic
SOUND SOURCES: Four oscillators with selectable Waveforms and available Linear FM - Oscillators 2, 3, and 4 also 
support Hard Sync; White Noise Generator; External Input jack
VCF FILTERS: Two Moog Analog Ladder Filters (VCF); -24db/Octave with Resonance (Self-Oscillating); 
Configurable in one of three modes:  Series = (VCF 1 High Pass/VCF 2 Low Pass); Stereo =  (VCF 1 Low Pass/VCF 2 
Low Pass); Parallel = (VCF 1 High Pass/VCF 2 Low Pass)
MOD SOURCES:  Analog Modulation Oscillator (Sine, Sawtooth, Ramp, Square, Staircase, Smooth Random, S/H) 
ENVELOPES:  Two Four-Stage (ADSR) Envelope Generators
ATTENUATORS: Three Bipolar Voltage Controlled Amplifiers (VCA)
MULTS: Two Sets of Four Parallel-Wired, Non-Buffered Patch Points
EFFECTS:  Stereo Analog Delay with Ping Pong mode and MIDI Sync
ARPEGGIATOR / STEP SEQUENCER: (256 Steps; 12 Sequence Files)
PATCH POINTS:
90 x 3.5mm (Front and Rear Panels)
49 Inputs, 33 Outputs
8 (4x2) Parallel-Wired Unbuffered Mults
AUDIO INPUT (Rear Panel): 1/4” TS 
AUDIO OUTPUTS (Rear Panel): 1/4” TRS Mains [LEFT (MONO) + RIGHT] impedance balanced outputs @ +4dBu 
(Rear Panel); 3.5mm (1/8”) Eurorack outputs [EURO OUT (L) + EURO OUT (R)] – unaffected by MAIN VOLUME  
knob setting; 3.5mm (1/8”) Stereo Delay outputs [DELAY OUT (L) + DELAY OUT (R)]
HEADPHONE OUTPUT (Rear Panel):  1/4” TRS Stereo Headphone jack with dedicated HEADPHONE LEVEL knob
MIDI I/O (Rear Panel): DIN In, Out, Thru; plus MIDI over USB 
PEDAL INPUTS (Rear Panel): One Sustain; One Expression
DIMENSIONS: 32” (81.28cm) Wide x 14 1/4” (36.19cm) Deep x 5 1/2” (13.97cm) High
WEIGHT: 30lbs / 13.61kg
POWER: Included Power Adapter 12V DC (Tip Positive Output), 2A; 100 Volts to 240 Volts AC, 50/60 Hz Input
SPECIFICATIONS

---PAGE 91---
91
SERVICE & SUPPORT INFORMATION
MOOG’S STANDARD WARRANTY
Moog warrants its products to be free of defects in materials or workmanship and conforming to specifications at the 
time of shipment. The Warranty Period is one year from the date of purchase. If, in Moog’s determination, it has been 
more than five years since the product shipped from our factory, it will be at Moog’s discretion whether or not to 
honor the warranty without regard to the date of the purchase. During the Warranty Period, any defective products 
will be repaired or replaced, at Moog’s option, on a return-to-factory basis. This warranty covers defects that Moog 
determines are no fault of the user.
The Moog Limited Warranty applies to USA purchasers only. Outside the USA the warranty policy and associated 
service is determined by the laws of the country of purchase and supported by our local authorized distributor. 
A listing of our authorized distributors is available at moogmusic.com. 
If you purchase outside of your country, you can expect to be charged for warranty as well as non-warranty service 
by the service center in your country.
RETURNING YOUR PRODUCT TO MOOG MUSIC
You must obtain prior approval in the form of an RMA (Return Material Authorization) number from Moog before 
returning any product. Email techsupport@moogmusic.com for the RMA number or call us at (828) 251-0090. 
All products must be packed carefully and shipped with the Moog supplied power adapter. The Matriarch must 
be returned in the original inner packing including the cardboard inserts. Sorry, the warranty will not be honored 
if the product is not properly packed. Once you have received the RMA number and carefully packed your Moog 
Matriarch, ship the product to Moog Music Inc. with transportation and insurance charges paid, and be sure to 
include your return shipping address.
   
 MOOG MUSIC
 160 Broadway St.
 Asheville NC, 28801
WHAT WE WILL DO
Once received, we will examine the product for any obvious signs of user abuse or damage as a result of transport. 
If the product abused, damaged in transit, or is out of warranty, we will contact you with an estimate of the repair 
cost. Warranty work will be performed and Moog will ship and insure your product to your United States address 
free of charge.
HOW TO INITIATE YOUR WARRANTY
Please initiate your warranty online at www.moogmusic.com/register. If you do not have web access, please call 
(828) 251-0090 to register your product.
CARING FOR MATRIARCH
Clean the Matriarch with a soft, dry cloth only – do not use solvents or abrasive detergents. Heed the safety 
warnings at the beginning of the manual. Do not drop the unit.
AN IMPORTANT NOTE ABOUT SAFETY: There are no user serviceable parts in Matriarch. Refer all servicing to 
qualified personnel only.
©2019 MOOG MUSIC INC. | 160 Broadway St. Asheville, NC 28801
Moog is registered in U.S. Patent and Trademark Office
Moog (stylized with design) is registered in U.S. Patent and Trademark Office 
The Moog Icon is registered in U.S. Patent and Trademark Office
Matriarch is a trademark of Moog Music Inc.
All rights reserved to Moog Music Inc. on all text and graphics here within.
Phone: 828.251.0090 | Email: info@moogmusic.com | Website: www.moogmusic.com

---PAGE 92---
92
Moog Music Is An Employee-Owned Company Located In Asheville, NC

