===== PDF PAGE 11 =====
PART
I
CONSTRUCTION OF THEMES
I
THE CONCEPT OF FORM
The: term form is used in several different senses. When used in connexion with binary,
ternary or rondoform, it refers chiefly to the number of parts.
1 The phrase sonataform
suggests, instead, the size of the parts and the complexity of their interrelationships.
In speaking of minuet, scherzo and other dance forms, one has in mind the metre,
tempo and rhythmic characteristics which identify the dance.
Used in the aesthetic sense, form means that a piece is organized; i.e. that it consists
of elements functioning like those of a living organism.
Without organization music would be an amorphous mass, as unintelligible as an
essay without punctuation, or as disconnected as a conversation which leaps purpose-
lessly from one subject to another.
The chief requirements for the creation of a comprehensible form are logic and
coherence. The presentation, development and interconnexion of ideas must be based
on
relationship.
Ideas must be
differentiated according to
their importance and
function.
Moreover, one can comprehend only what one can keep in mind. Man’s mental
limitations prevent him from grasping anything which is too extended. Thus appro-
priate subdivision facilitates understanding and determines the form.
The
size and number of parts does not always depend on the size of a piece.
Generally, the larger the piece, the greater the number of parts. But sometimes a short
piece may have the same number of parts as a longer one, just as a midget has the
same number of limbs, the same form, as a giant.
A composer does not, of course, add
bit by bit, as a child does in building with
wooden blocks. He conceives an entire composition as a spontaneous vision. Then he
1
‘Part' is used in the most general sense to indicate undifferentiated elements, sections or subdivisions
of a piece. Other terms will be used later to distinguish parts of various sizes and with different functions.


===== PDF PAGE 12 =====
CONSTRUCTION OF THEMES
proceeds,
like Michelangelo who chiselled his Moses out of the marble without
sketches, complete in every detail, thus directlyforming his material.
No beginner is capable of envisaging a composition in its entirety; hence he must
proceed gradually, from the simpler to the more complex. Simplified practice forms,
which do not always correspond to art forms, help a student to acquire the sense of
form and a knowledge of the essentials of construction. It will be useful
to start by
building musical blocks and connecting them intelligently.
These musical blocks (phrases, motives, etc.) will provide the material for building
larger units of various kinds, according to the requirements of the structure. Thus the
demands of logic, coherence and comprehensibility can be fulfilled, in relation to the
need for contrast, variety and fluency of presentation.
II
THE PHRASE
The smallest structural unit is the phrase, a kind of musical molecule consisting of a
number of integrated musical events, possessing a certain completeness, and well
adapted to combination with other similar units.
The term phrase means, structurally, a unit approximating to what one could sing
in a single breath (Ex. I).' Its ending suggests a form of punctuation such as a comma.
Often some
features appear more than once within
the phrase. Such
‘motivic’
characteristics will be discussed in the following chapter.
In homophonic-harmonic music, the essential content is concentrated in one voice,
the principal voice, which implies an inherent harmony. The mutual accommodation
of melody and harmony is difficult at
first. But the composer should never invent a
melody without being conscious of its harmony.
When the melodic idea consists entirely or largely of notes outlining a single har-
mony, or a simple succession of harmonies, there is little difficulty in determining and
expressing the harmonic implications. With such a clear harmonic skeleton, even
rather elaborate melodic
ideas can be readily
related to
their inherent harmony.
Exs. 2 and 3 illustrate such cases at several levels. Almost any simple harmonic pro-
gression can be used, but for opening phrases
I and V are especially useful, since they
express the key most clearly.
The addition of non-chordal notes contributes to the fluency and interest of the
phrase, provided they do not obscure or contradict the harmony. The various ‘con-
ventional
formulas’
for using non-chordal notes (passing
notes,
auxiliary
notes,
changing
notes,
suspensions,
appoggiaturas,
etc.)
provide
for harmonic
clarity
through the resolution of non-chordal into chordal notes.
Rhythm is particularly important in moulding the phrase. It contributes to interest
and variety; it establishes character; and it is often the determining factor in establish-
ing the unity of the phrase. The end of the phrase is usually differentiated rhythmically
to provide punctuation.
Phrase endings may be marked by a combination of distinguishing features, such
as rhythmic reduction, melodic relaxation through a drop in pitch, the use of smaller
intervals and fewer notes; or by any other suitable differentiation.
The length of a phrase may vary within wide limits (Ex. 4). Metre and tempo have
a great deal to do with phrase-length. In compound metres a length of two measures
1 Exs. 1-11 at end of chapter, pp. 5-7.


===== PDF PAGE 13 =====
CONSTRUCTION OF THEMES
may be considered the average; in simple metres a length of four measures is normal.
But in very slow tempos the phrase may be reduced to half a measure; and in very
rapid tempos eight measures or more may constitute a single phrase.
The phrase is seldom an exact multiple of the measure length ;
it usually varies by
a beat or more. And nearly always the phrase crosses the metrical subdivisions, rather
than filling the measures completely.
There is no intrinsic reason for a phrase to be restricted to an even number. But the
consequences of irregularity are so far reaching that discussion of such cases will be
reserved for Chapter XIV.
COMMENT ON EXAMPLES1
In the early stages a composer's invention seldom flows freely. The control of
melodic, rhythmic and harmonic factors impedes the spontaneous conception of
musical ideas. It is possible to stimulate the inventive faculties and acquire technical
facility by making a great many sketches of phrases based on a predetermined har-
mony. At
first, such attempts may be
stiff and awkward, but, with patience, the
co-ordination of the
various elements
will
rapidly become smoother,
until
real
fluency and even expressiveness is attained.
Exs. 5-1 1 may be taken as an outline for practise. Here a single harmony, the tonic
ofF major, is taken as a basis. Ex. 5 shows a few of the contours which can be created
by various arrangements of the notes of the chord. In Ex. 6 smaller note-values pro-
duce different results. Ex. 7, still confined to notes of the chord, illustrates the variety
that can be achieved by combining different note-values (study also Exs. 2d, e, h).
Exs. 8 and 9, based on Exs. 5 and 7, show how the simplest melodic and rhythmic
additions can contribute fluency and vitality (study also Exs. 2 and 3).
The more elaborate embellishments of Exs.
10 and
1
1 contribute flexibility and
richness of detail, but tend to overburden the melody with small notes and obscure
the harmony.
1 The examples will come at the ends of chapters following the ‘Comment on Examples'.
THE PHRASE


===== PDF PAGE 14 =====


===== PDF PAGE 15 =====
THE MOTIVE
III
THE MOTIVE
Even the writing ofsimple phrases involves the invention and use of motives, though
perhaps unconsciously. Consciously used, the motive should produce unity, relation-
ship, coherence, logic, comprehensibility and fluency.
The motive generally appears in a characteristic and impressive manner at the
beginning of a piece. The features of a motive are intervals and rhythms, combined to
produce a memorable shape or contour which usually implies an inherent harmony.
Inasmuch as almost every figure within a piece reveals some relationship to
it, the
basic motive is often considered the ‘germ’ of the idea. Since it includes elements, at
least, of every subsequent musical figure, one could consider it the ‘smallest common
multiple'. And since it is included in every subsequent figure,
it could be considered
the ‘greatest common factor’.
However, everything depends on its use. Whether a motive be simple or complex,
whether
it consists of few or many features, the final impression of the piece
is not
determined by its primary form. Everything depends on its treatment and develop-
ment.
A motive appears constantly throughout a piece:
it is repeated. Repetition alone
often gives rise to monotony. Monotony can only be overcome by variation.
Use ofthe motive requires variation
Variation means change. But changing every feature produces something foreign,
incoherent, illogical. It destroys the basic shape of the motive.
Accordingly, variation requires changing some of the less-important features and
preserving some of the more-important ones.
Preservation of rhythmic
features
effectively produces coherence (though monotony cannot be avoided without slight
changes). For the rest, determining which features are more important depends on the
compositional objective. Through
substantial changes, a variety of motive-forms,
adapted to every formal function, can be produced.
Homophonic music can be called the style of ‘developing variation’. This means that
in the succession of motive-forms produced through variation of the basic motive,
there is something which can be compared to development, to growth. But changes
of subordinate meaning, which have no special consequences, have only the local
effect of an embellishment. Such changes are better termed variants.
WHAT CONSTITUTES A MOTIVE
Any rhythmicized succession of notes can be used as a basic motive, but there should
not be too many different features.
Rhythmic features may be very simple, even for the main theme of a sonata (Ex.
12a). A symphony can be built on scarcely more complex rhythmic features (Exs. Mb,
c,
13). The examples from Beethoven's Fifth symphony consist primarily of note-
repetitions, which sometimes contribute distinctive characteristics.
A motive need not contain a great many interval features. The main theme of
Brahms’s Fourth symphony (Ex. 13), though also containing sixths and octaves, is,
as the analysis shows, constructed on a succession of thirds.
Often a contour or shape is significant, although the rhythmic treatment and inter-
vals change. The upward leap in Ex.
12«; the movement up by step in Ex.
16; the
upward sweep followed by a return within it which pervades Beethoven’s Op. 2/3-IV,1
illustrate such cases.
Every element or feature of a motive or phrase must be considered to be a motive
if it is treated as such, i.e. if it is repeated with or without variation.
TREATMENT AND UTILIZATION OF THE MOTIVE
A motive is used by repetition. The repetition may be exact, modified or developed.
Exact repetitions preserve all features and relationships. Transpositions to a different
degree, inversions, retrogrades, diminutions and augmentations are exact repetitions
if they preserve strictly the features and note relations (Ex.
14).
Modified repetitions ate created through variation. They provide variety and produce
new material (motive-forms) for subsequent use.
Some variations, however, are merely local ‘variants' and have little or no influence
on the continuation.
Variation, it must be remembered, is repetition in which some features are changed
and the rest preserved.
All the features of rhythm, interval, harmony and contour are subject to various
alterations. Frequently, several methods of variation are applied to several features
simultaneously; but such changes must not produce a motive-form too foreign to the
basic motive. In the course of a piece, a motive-form may be developed further through
subsequent variation. Exs. 15 and 16 are illustrations.
COMMENT ON EXAMPLES
In Exs. 17-29, based solely on a broken chord, some of the methods which can be
applied are shown as systematically as is practicable.
' References lo ihe literature identified only by opus number apply to Beethoven piano sonatas. Because
of their general accessibility, a great many references to them appear in the later chapters.


===== PDF PAGE 16 =====
CONSTRUCTION OF THEMES
The rhythm is changed
1. By modifying the length of the notes (Ex.
17).
2. By note repetitions (Exs. 11h,
i, k,
I, «).
3. By repetition of certain rhythms (Exs.
17/, m,
18c).
4. By shifting rhythms to different beats (Ex. 23;
in particular, compare 23d with
23c,/, g).
5. By addition of upbeats (Ex. 22).
6. By changing the metre—a device seldom usable within a piece (Ex. 24).
The intervals are changed:
1. By changing the original order or direction of the notes (Ex.
19).
2. By addition or omission of intervals (Ex. 21).
3. By filling up intervals with ancillary1 notes (Exs. 18, 20 ff.).
4. By reduction through omission or condensation (Ex. 21).
5. By repetition of features (Exs. 20h, 22a, b, d).
6. By shifting features to other beats (Ex. 23).
The harmony is changed
1 . By the use of inversions (Exs. 25a, b).
2. By additions at the end (Exs. 25 c-i).
3. By insertions in the middle (Ex. 26).
4. By substituting a different chord (Exs. 27a, b, c) or succession (Exs. 27d-i).
The melody is adapted to these changes:
1 . By transposition (Ex. 28).
2. By addition of passing harmonies (Ex. 29).
3. By ‘semi-contrapuntal’ treatment of the accompaniment (Ex. 29).
Such exploration of the resources of variation can be of great assistance in the
acquisition of technical skill and the development of a rich inventive faculty.
1 In order to avoid aesthetically misleading and corrupted terms, ancillary will be preferred in referring
to the so-called ‘embellishing' or 'ornamental' notes of conventional melodic formulas.


===== PDF PAGE 17 =====
CONSTRUCTION OF THEMES
THE MOTIVE


===== PDF PAGE 18 =====


===== PDF PAGE 19 =====
IV
CONNECTING MOTIVE-FORMS
Artistically, the connexion of motive-forms depends on factors which can only
be discussed at a later stage. However, the mechanics ofcombination can be described
and demonstrated,
while
temporarily
disregarding the
stiffness of some of the
resulting phrases.
Common content, rhythmic similarities and coherent harmony contribute to logic.
Common content
is provided by using motive-forms derived from the same basic
motive. Rhythmic similarities act as unifying elements. Coherent harmony1 reinforces
relationship.
1 n a general way every piece of music resembles a cadence, of which each phrase will
be a more or less elaborate part. In simple cases a mere interchange of I-V-I, if not
contradicted by controversial harmonies, can express a tonality. As used in traditional
music, such an interchange
is generally concluded with a more elaborate cadence.*
Ordinarily the harmony moves more slowly than the melody; in other words, a
number of melodic notes usually refers to a single harmony (Exs. 43,44, 45, 58, etc.).*
The contrary occasionally occurs when the harmony moves quasi-contrapuntally
against a melody in long notes (Exs. 51c, m.
17, 58g). Naturally, the accompanying
harmony should reveal a certain regularity. As motive of the harmony and motive of
the accompaniment, through motive-like repetitions,
this regularity contributes to
unity and comprehensibility (Chapter IX).
A well-balanced melody progresses in waves,
i.e. each elevation
is countered by
a depression.
It approaches a high point or climax through a series of intermediate
lesser high points, interrupted by recessions. Upward movements arc balanced by
downward movements; large intervals are compensated for by conjunct movement in
the opposite direction. A good melody generally remains within a reasonable com-
pass, not straying too far from a central range.
BUILDING PHRASES
Exs. 30-34 show various methods of producing a large number of different phrases
out of one basic motive. Some of them might be used to begin a theme, others to
1 The concept of coherent harmony used here
is deduced from the practice of the period from Bach to
Wagner.
* For evaluation and explanation of the Toot progressions', see Arnold Schoenberg, Theory of Harmony,
pp. 70 If., and Structural Functions of Harmony, Chapter II.
*
Exs. 42-51 at end of Chapter VII; Exs. 52-61 at end of Chapter VIII
CONNECTING MOTIVE-FORMS
17
continue
it; and some, especially those which do not begin with
1, as material to
meet other structural
requirements, e.g. contrasts, subordinate ideas and the like.
Motivic features are indicated by brackets and letters. A detailed analysis will reveal
many additional relationships to the basic motive.
In Ex. 31 the original form is varied by adding ancillary notes, though all notes of
the basic motive are retained. In Ex. 32 the rhythm
is preserved, producing closely
related motive-forms in spite of changes in interval and direction. Combined with
transpositions to other degrees, this procedure
is often used in traditional music to
produce entire themes (see, for example, Ex. 52). In such cases each note of the melody
is either a harmony note or a non-chordal note that corresponds to one of the estab-
lished conventional formulas.
In Ex. 33 more far-reaching variations are produced by combining rhythmic changes
with the addition of ancillary notes, as well as with changes of interval and direction.
Even though some of the examples arc rather stiff and overcrowded, the practice of
making such sketches, which attempt various methods of variation, should never be
abandoned.
Other far-reaching variations are shown in Ex. 34. Through such rhythmic shifting
and rearrangement of features, material is produced for the continuation of extended
themes, and for contrasts. But the use of such remotely related motive-forms may
endanger comprehensibility.
In working out derivatives of a motive,
it
is important that the results have the
character of true phrases—of complete musical units.


===== PDF PAGE 20 =====
CONNECTING MOTIVE-FORMS
Ex. 34
Rhythmic shifts, added upbeats, reduction, omission of features


===== PDF PAGE 21 =====
CONSTRUCTION OF SIMPLE THEMES (1)
V
CONSTRUCTION OF SIMPLE THEMES
1. BEGINNING THE SENTENCE
I n the first chapter, ‘The Concept of Form’,
it was stated that a piece of music con-
sists of a number of parts. They differ more or less in content, character and mood
;
in tonality, size and structure. These differences permit presentation of an idea from
various viewpoints, producing those contrasts on which variety is based.
Variety must never endanger comprehensibility or logic. Comprehensibility requires
limitation of variety, especially if notes, harmonies, motive-forms or contrasts follow
each other in rapid succession. Rapidity obstructs one’s grasp of an idea. Thus pieces
in rapid tempo exhibit a lesser degree of variety.
There are means by which the tendency toward too rapid development, which
is
often the consequence of disproportionate variety, can be controlled. Delimitation,
subdivision and simple repetition arc the most useful.
Intelligibility in music seems to be impossible without repetition. While repetition
without variation can easily produce monotony, juxtaposition of distantly related
elements can
easily degenerate
into nonsense,
especially
if unifying elements are
omitted. Only so much variation as character, length and tempo required should be
admitted: the coherence of motive-forms should be emphasized.
Discretion is especially necessary when the goal is an immediate intelligibility, as in
popular music. However, such discretion is not restricted to popular music alone. On
the contrary,
it
is most characteristic of the manner in which the classical masters
constructed their forms. They sought a ‘popular touch’ in their themes, this being the
slogan under which the ‘ars nova’ of the eighteenth century detached itself from the
shackles of the contrapuntal style. (Thus, Romain Rolland, in his Musical Journey ,
quotes the German theorist, Mattheson, in his Vollkommener Kappelmeister (1739)
as saying that in the ‘new style’ composers hide the fact that they write great music.
‘A theme should have a certain something which the whole world already knows.’)
THE PERIOD AND THE SENTENCE
A complete musical idea or theme
is customarily articulated as a period or a sen-
tence. These structures usually appear in classical music as parts of larger forms (e.g.
as a
in the aba
1 form), but occasionally are independent
(e.g.
in strophic songs).
There are many different types which are similar in two respects: they centre around
a tonic, and they have a definite ending.
In the simplest cases these structures consist ofan even number of measures, usually
eight or a multiple of eight (i.e. 16 or, in very rapid tempos, even 32, where two or
four measures are, in effect, equal to the content of one).
The distinction between the sentence and the period lies in the treatment of the
second phrase, and in the continuation after
it.
THE BEGINNING OF THE SENTENCE
The construction of the beginning determines the construction of the continuation.
In
its opening segment a theme must clearly present (in addition to tonality, tempo
and metre) its basic motive. The continuation must meet the requirements of com-
prehensibility. An immediate repetition is the simplest solution, and is characteristic
of the sentence structure.
If the beginning is a two-measure phrase, the continuation (m. 3 and 4) maybe
cither an unvaried or a transposed repetition. Slight changes in the melody or harmony
may be made without obscuring the repetition.
Illustrations from the literature1
In Exs. 58d, 59/ and 60c, simple repetition appears with little or no change what-
soever. In Exs. 58c and g, although the harmony remains the same, the accompani-
ment is slightly varied and the melody transposed. In Ex. 58/ the lower octave is used.
In Exs. 59</and g the melody only is slightly varied. In Ex. 61c the second measure
of the second phrase ascends in conformity with the progress of the harmony towards
III. Ex. 53a presents an otherwise unvaried transposition to III (the relative major),
i.e. a sequence.
Ex. 57a
is sequential
in the melody and partially sequential
in the
accompaniment.
THE DOMINANT FORM: THE COMPLEMENTARY REPETITION2
In many classical examples one finds a relationship between first and second phrase
similar to that of dux (tonic form) and comes (dominant form) in the fugue. This kind
of repetition, through its slightly contrasting formulation, provides variety in unity.
In the repetition, the rhythm and contour of the melody are preserved. An element
of contrast enters through the changed harmony and the necessary adaptation of the
melody.
In practising this type of continuation the tonic form may be based on:
I, l-V,
1-V-I, I-1V or possibly I—II. In these simple cases the dominant form will contrast
with the tonic form in the following manner:
1
Exs. 52-61 at end of Chapter VIII, pp. 63-81.
! This
is one of many examples of the difficulties associated with loose terminology. Tonic version and
ilominanl version would be clearer and more precise, but Schoenberg preferred to use the more familiar
terms (Ed.).


===== PDF PAGE 22 =====
22
CONSTRUCTION OF THEMES
Tonic form
Dominant form
V
I-V-I
V-I-V
I-IV
v-[
I-1I
V-I
In the last two cases, simple reversal of the harmonies
is not impossible; but the
V- 1 progression is preferable because it expresses the tonality more clearly. The ending
on
1 preceded by V is so useful that it is often applied when, for example, tonic form is
HI,
1 -VI or even I-III.
Illustrations from the literature
In Exs. 35a, b and
536,
the
first phrase employs only
I and the second phrase
only V.
The scheme
I -V (tonic form), V-I (dominant form) can be observed in Exs. 52b
and c. Compare also, among Beethoven's works, the Piano Sonata, Op. 31/2— III (four-
measure phrases); and the String Quartets, Op. 59/2-1 II and Op. 13 I-IV. The melody
is modified only enough to conform with the harmony.
The tonic form of Ex. 36 is based on l-V-I
; the dominant form on V-I-V. In Ex. 37
the dominant form includes some passing harmonies. In contrast, the passing har-
monics in the tonic form of Ex. 38 are not mechanically preserved in the dominant
form. But in Ex. 39, where the tonic form consists of I-IV, the dominant form consists
basically of V-I, though more elaborate part-writing disguises it.
COMMENT ON EXAMPLES
The tonic form (m. 1-2) of Ex. 40a is followed (m. 3-4) by a dominant form in
which the melody follows the contour of the first phrase exactly. In Exs. 406 and c
other dominant forms are shown in which, while the rhythm is preserved, the contour
is treated more freely.
In Ex. 41 the dominant forms are varied more than the harmonic change requires.
In Exs. 416 and c the tonic form
is based on four harmonies, which makes a true
answer difficult. To answer
literally a tonic form with too many harmonies
is im-
practicable. Here, only the main harmonies, I-V, could be answered, with V-I.
It should be observed that even
in these short passages, a definite and regular
accompaniment is employed to animate the harmony and to express a specific charac-
ter. Consistency in the application of accompanimental characteristics is a powerful
unifying factor.
CONSTRUCTION OF SIMPLE THEMES (I)


===== PDF PAGE 23 =====
VI
CONSTRUCTION OF SIMPLE THEMES
2. ANTECEDENT OF THE PERIOD
Only a small percentage of all classical themes can be classified as periods. Romantic
composers make still less use of them. However, the practise of writing periods is a
convenient way to become acquainted with many technical problems.
The construction of the beginning determines the construction of the continuation.
The period
differs from the sentence
in postponement of the repetition. The
first
phrase
is
not
repeated
immediately,
but
united
with more remote
(contrasting)
motive-forms, to constitute the first half of the period, the antecedent. After this con-
trast repetition cannot be longer postponed without endangering comprehensibility. 1
1'hus the second half, the consequent,
is constructed as a kind of repetition of the
antecedent.
In composing periods a practice form will be useful. It should consist of eight mea-
sures, divided into an antecedent and consequent of four measures each by a caesura
in the fourth measure. This caesura, a type of musical punctuation comparable to a
comma or semicolon, is carried out in both melody and harmony.
In a great majority of cases the antecedent ends on V, usually approached through
a half or
full cadence, but sometimes through mere interchange of I and V. Ante-
cedents which end on
I also exist.
The consequent usually ends on
I, V or III (major or minor) with a full cadence.
Although the consequent should be in part a repetition of the antecedent, the cadence,
at least, will have to be different, even if it leads to the same degree. Generally, one or
two measures of the beginning will be retained, sometimes with more or less variation.
ANALYSIS OF PERIODS FROM BEETHOVEN’S PIANO SONATAS
Op. 2/1-11, Adagio. The antecedent ends on V (m. 4); the consequent on
I (m. 8).
The harmony of the antecedent is a mere interchange of I and V ; the consequent ends
1 The real purpose of musical construction is not beauty, but intelligibility. Former theorists and aestheti-
ii.i ns called such forms as the period symmetrical. The term symmetry has probably been applied to music
by analogy to the forms of the graphic arts and architecture. But the only really symmetrical forms in music
are the mirror forms, derived from contrapuntal music. Real symmetry is not a principle of musical construc-
tion. Even if the consequent in a period repeats the antecedent strictly, the structure can only be called ‘quasi-
symmetricaF. Though quasi-symmetrical construction is used extensively in popular music, that beauty can
exist without symmetry
is proved by a great many cases of asymmetrical construction.


===== PDF PAGE 24 =====
CONSTRUCTION OF THEMES
CONSTRUCTION OF SIMPLE THEMES (2)
27
with a full cadence. The upbeat, which is twice varied, and the feminine ending
1 in
m. 2, 4 and 8 are unifying characteristics of this melody. It is significant that the melodic
approach to a climax in m. 6 is supported by more frequent changes of the harmony
and the increasing use of small notes. The downward movement after the climax
is
also significant.
Op. 2/2-1V. The caesura on V is reinforced by a half cadence in m. 4. Observe the
contrast between the first and second phrases. The consequent deviates harmonically
in m. 6, ending with a full cadence on V (m. 8), as if in the key of the dominant. M. 7
and 8, through remote variation and richer movement, produce the necessary intensi-
fication of the cadence.
Op.
10/3, Menuetto. The antecedent and consequent consist of eight measures
each. In the first four measures of the consequent, the melody and harmony of the
antecedent are transposed a note higher, without any other variation.
Op.
10/3, Rondo. This period consists of nine measures, the irregularity resulting
from the five measure consequent. The contrast in m. 3-4 makes use of a special
device, a chain-like construction. Ex. 42a2 shows that the end of each motive-form is
the beginning of the next; they overlap like the links of a chain. The consequent
introduces (m. 5-6) two sequences of the motive, in place of the single repetition in
m.
1-2 (Ex. 426). A premature ending
in the seventh measure
is evaded through
a deceptive cadence, and completed with a varied repetition ending in m. 9.
ANALYSIS OF OTHER ILLUSTRATIONS FROM THE LITERATURE
In Ex. 43 Bach’s contrapuntal movement often conceals the caesura. But the period-
like repetition of motive-forms is evident. While one of the examples (Ex. 436) ends
on
III (the relative major), three others are treated similarly to the Dorian mode;
i.e. Exs. 43c and e reach the dominant through a quasi-Phrygian cadence, and Ex. 43d
must be classified as having a plagal cadence, though the upper voices, astonishingly,
express the authentic cadence. Such a procedure
is only justified by the motion of
independent parts.
In the Haydn examples, Ex. 44, the caesura (always on V) is sometimes approached
through mere interchange, sometimes through half cadences, and occasionally through
full cadences. Exs. 44a, c and
/ are irregular,
i.e. they consist of 10, 9 and 9 measures,
respectively. The structural meaning of the extensions is indicated. In all the examples
m. 3-4 differ significantly from m. 1-2. Even in Ex. 44/, using continuous sixteenth-
notes, the figuration and the harmony of m. 3-4 are clearly differentiated. Observe
especially the relations and variations marked with brackets.
In some of the Mozart examples, Ex. 45, the repetition at the beginning of the
1 An ending on a strong beat
is called ‘masculine’, and on a weak beat. ‘feminine\ Too frequent use of
the same kind of ending is often monotonous.
1 Exs. 42-51 appear at end of Chapter VII, pp. 32-57.
consequent is slightly varied. In Exs. 45c and / the inversion of I is used; in Ex. 45a
ihe whole consequent is shifted to the lower octave;
in Ex. 45c the simple doubling
of the bass produces an effective variation.
The Beethoven examples, Ex.
46, are chosen principally from the viewpoint of
character. In Exs. 466, d and /, the consequent is built on the dominant. How many
variations a single rhythm can undergo is evident in Ex. 46d. Note that in both m. 6
and rn.
7, two harmonies are used (intensification of the cadence through concentra-
tion). In Ex. 46c both the antecedent (five measures) and the consequent (seven mea-
sures) show remarkable irregularities.
Among the Schubert examples. Ex. 47, two (Exs. 476, c) show how beautiful a
melody can be
built from variations of a
single rhythmic
figure.
Since rhythmic
features are more easily remembered than intervallic features, they contribute more
cITectively to comprehensibility.
Constant
repetition
of a rhythmic
figure, as
in
popular music, lends a popular touch to many Schubertian melodies. But their real
nobility manifests itself in their rich melodic contour.
CONSTRUCTION OF THE ANTECEDENT
In the opening
section of the
sentence, m. 3-4 are constructed as a modified
repetition of the first phrase. The antecedent of the period introduces a new problem.
Since the consequent is a kind of repetition, the antecedent should be completed with
more remote motive-forms in m. 3-4.
As a consequence ofthe ‘tendency of the smallest notes',
1 one may expect an increase
in small notes in the continuation of the antecedent. This can be observed in the third
(sometimes also in the fourth) measures of Exs. 44a, 6, c, d, g, k, 45a, 6, c, d,j and 46c.
But the increase of small notes is only one way of constructing m. 3-4 as a contrast-
ing, yet coherent, continuation of m. 1-2. In Exs. 44/ 6, »',/ /, 45/ 46a, r/,/and 476, c.
d. c, the coherence is more evident than the contrast, which consists merely of a change
of register, direction or contour.
A coherent contrast can also be produced through a decrease of smaller notes, in
which case the motive-form appears to be a reduction (Exs. 43a, 45/, 46g).
Such a decrease is often used to mark melodically the ending of the antecedent, the
caesura. Exs. 44a,
d, g, 6,
/', 456, 46c, / g and 47a, d show this usage. Generally,
the caesura
is supported by a contrast in the contour, which often descends below
ihe register of the beginning (Exs. 44c, </,/, k, 45g.j, 46c, 47a). Frequently the caesura
is approached by receding from an earlier climactic point, as in Exs. 44a, /, j, k, 45a,
6, c,fand 46a, 6, c.
' The smallest notes in any segment of a piece, even in a motive or motive-form, have an influence on
ihe continuation which can be compared to the momentum of acceleration in a falling body: thelonger the
movement lasts, the faster
it becomes. Thus,
if in the beginning only one sixteenth-note
is used, very soon
an increasing number will appear, growing often into whole passages of sixteenths. To restrict this tendency
of the smallest notes requires special care.


===== PDF PAGE 25 =====
28
CONSTRUCTION OF THEMES
When the coherence between the basic motive-forms and the more remote deri-
vatives in m. 3-4 is not quite obvious, a connective may bridge the gap. One of the
features, often the upbeat or a preceding motive-form,
is used to join them. (Exs.
44/
/, 45c, d, g, 46c, 47d). But abrupt juxtaposition of contrasting forms need not
necessarily produce imbalance (Ex. 45a).
As harmonic basis for an antecedent, one can use progressions like those of Exs. 43
to 5 1 . Movement of the harmony in equal notes (i.e. regular change of the harmony)
supports unity because it is a primitive kind of ‘motive of the accompaniment’.
It should not be forgotten that one purpose of constructing motive-forms from a
broken chord (Exs. 5-11, 17-29) was to assure a sound relationship between melody
and harmony. To make many sketches of motive-forms, built from broken chords by
variation, remains a valuable method of deriving well co-ordinated materials.
One may acquiesce to the ‘tendency of the smallest notes’. But too many small notes
may produce a crowded effect. On the other hand, in masterpieces one meets cases like
the extreme rhythmical contrast between first and second phrases in Exs. 45a and
</.
In other Mozart examples (Exs. 456, g), the co-ordination of the small notes with the
harmony, as ancillary notes, is of a perfection which no beginner dare hope for.
Continuous and thorough study of examples from musical literature
is essential.
There are many melodies whose compass is very small (see Exs. 45/, 50a, b). Some-
times when the antecedent remains within a fifth (Ex. Ale) or a sixth (Ex. Abd) the
consequent ascends to a climax. But melodies whose compass at the beginning is very
broad (Exs. 44a,
c, d, 45a) are likely to achieve balance by returning to a middle
register. All these examples show that much variety can be achieved within a relatively
small compass, though
the extension
of the compass
is often a defence against
monotony.
Envisioning a definite character helps to stimulate inventiveness. The accompani-
ment makes important contributions to the expression of character. Such features as
differentiation between detached and legato notes (Exs. AAd, Ale, 48a, 50a, <-); rests
where harmonization is not required (Exs. 35, 38, AAh, 466); unharmonized upbeats
(Exs. 44a, g, 45/, Abb, d, etc.); semicontrapuntal treatment of middle voices (Exs.
416, 44g, 45a, 486, 51/); afterbeat harmony (Exs. 44c, d, A5d, Abd, 50c); and special
rhythmic figures (Exs.
46/', Alb, 49a, 50a, 51/) should be employed from the very
beginning.
It is difficult to reconcile a complex accompaniment with good piano style. Writing
for the piano should ignore, as much as possible, the existence of the pedal, i.e. every-
thing should be within easy reach of the fingers.
One must beware of (1) imbalance through overcrowding, (2) destruction of the
character and (3) obscuration of the harmonic progression. Fluent part-writing in
the accompaniment does not endanger the clarity of the harmony.
But control of
the root progressions is essential.
VII
CONSTRUCTION OF SIMPLE THEMES
3. CONSEQUENT OF THE PERIOD
The consequent
is a modified repetition of the antecedent, made necessary by the
remote motive-forms in m. 3-4. If the period is a complete piece (e.g. children's songs)
it must end (usually with a perfect authentic cadence) on I. If it is part of a larger form
it may end on
I. V or III (major or minor).
1
An unchanged and complete repetition is very rare. Even in the very simple cases
of Exs. 506, c and e, at least the last measure is modified. Usually, the introduction of
a full cadence requires earlier changes. In Exs. 45/, k. Aba, g and 50a the deviation of
the harmony occurs in the seventh measure; and in Exs. 44/ and 47c, e, in the sixth
measure.
Variation of the harmony can start as early as the first measure of the consequent.
In Ex. 45/the variation consists in the use of inversions of the same harmonies. The
consequent may even begin on a different degree. For instance, in the Menuetto of
Beethoven’s Op.
10/3, m. 9,
it starts on
II, as a sequence of the antecedent. In Exs.
446 and Abd,
it begins on V. The harmonic variation
in m. 5 of Ex. Aid is the begin-
ning of an enriched cadence.
MELODIC considerations: cadence contour
Variety needs no justification.
It
is a merit
in itself. But some variations
in the
melody are involuntary results of the changed harmonic construction, particularly of
the cadence.
In order to exercise the function of a cadence, the melody must assume certain
characteristics, producing a
special cadence contour, which usually contrasts with
what precedes
it. The melody parallels the changes in the harmony, obeying the ten-
dency of the smallest notes (like an accelerando), or, on the contrary, contradicting
the tendency by employing longer notes (like a ritardando).
Increase of smaller note values
is more frequent
in cadences than decrease. As
examples of rhythmic increase, see, in the Beethoven Sonatas: Op. 2/1, Adagio, m.
' Sometimes major 111 occurs in a major key. tn Beclhoven's Siring Quarlel. Op. I3I-V, a (Phrygian)
li.ilf cadence leads to a (major)
III. In his Siring Quarlel. Op.
18/5, Variation 4, a full cadence leads lo a


===== PDF PAGE 26 =====
30
CONSTRUCTION OF THEMES
CONSTRUCTION OF SIMPLE THEMES (3)
6-7; Op. 2/2-IV, m. 7; Op. 22, Menuetto, m. 7; Ex. 46g, m. 7-8. Sec also Exs. 446,
m. 7 ; 44/, m. 7 ; 47c, m. 6-7 ; 49a, m. 7.
An unusual example of rhythmic decrease is shown in Ex. 46h, m. 7. Other examples
include Exs. 44j and 46/ (very conspicuous). The two cases in Exs. 44/ and 47a are
remarkable because, instead of a rhythmic decrease, a ‘written-out ritardando' appears
as an extension.
The melody in the cadence commonly reduces characteristic features (which de-
mand continuation) to uncharacteristic ones. Illustrations of this can be found
in a
great many examples. Compare, for instance, m. 7 of Exs. 45c and/with their respec-
tive m.
1-2. In both cases the characteristic intervals are abandoned, or combined
in a different order, and in Ex. 45c the eighth-note movement stops entirely with the
third and fourth beats.
If there is a climax the melody is likely to recede from it, balancing the compass by
returning to the middle register. This decline in the cadence contour, combined with
concentration of the harmony and the liquidation of motival
obligations, can be
depended upon to provide effective delimitation of the structure. See, for example,
Exs. 45/, g.
RHYTHMIC CONSIDERATIONS
Since the consequent
is a varied repetition of the antecedent, and since variation
does not change all the features but preserves some of them, distantly related motive-
forms might sound incoherent.
THE PRESERVATION OF THE RHYTHM ALLOWS EXTENSIVE CHANGES IN THE MELODIC
CONTOUR.
Thus in Ex. 47b the consequent preserves only one rhythm, abandoning for the
sake of unity even the slight variations in m. 2 and 4. This rhythmic unification per-
mits far-reaching changes of the melodic contour in slow tempo, and promotes
comprehensibility in rapid tempo. See also Exs. 45a,/, 46dj.
COMMENT ON PERIODS BY ROMANTIC COMPOSERS
Some of the classical examples of Exs. 44-47 deviate from the eight-measure con-
struction. Such deviations can also be found among the examples from Mendelssohn
(Ex. 48) and Brahms (Ex.
51). To control such divergencies requires special tech-
niques of extension, reduction, etc., whose discussion must be postponed.
These examples show the various manners in which Romantic composers approach
thematic construction. The examples from Brahms are especially interesting because
of their harmony. They differ from the classic examples in a more prolific exploitation
of the multiple meaning of harmonies. Ex. 51a is an illustration. In m.
1-6 there
appear only a few harmonies belonging diatonically to /-minor; but most of them
(at *) could be understood as Neapolitan 6' 11 of c-minor, an explanation supported by
the immediate continuation. The deviation in m. 3 toward Ep is surprising. While E'p
might be the dominant of the mediant region (relative major),
it is actually treated
like a tonic on VII. But in m. 7-8 Brahms finally identifies m. 1-2 and 5-6 as pertain-
ing to c-minor, or, more accurately, to the v-region of/minor. 1
In Ex. 51c a repetition (m.
1 7-32), unchanged in melody and harmony, is varied by
supplying a quasi-contrapuntal treatment of the accompanying lower voices.
The construction of Exs. 51 d and c will be clarified later (Chapter XV). Observe
the use ofa pedalpoint in Ex. 51/ at the beginning (m. 1-2) and at the end (m. 10-14).
Though the pedal point
is often used in masterpieces for expressive or pictorial
purposes, its real meaning should be a constructive one. In this sense one finds
it at
ihc end of a transition or an elaboration, emphasizing the end of a previous modula-
lion and preparing for the reintroduction of the tonic. In such cases the effect of
a pedal point should be one of retardation:
it holds back the forward progress of the
harmony. Another constructive use of such retardation of the harmonic movement
is to balance remote motival variation (a method paralleled by the balancing of centri-
fugal harmony with simpler motival variation). If no such purpose is involved, a pedal
point should be avoided. A moving, melodic bass line is always a greater merit.
In Ex. 51/the tendency of the smallest notes accounts for a variant in m. 5. The
rhythmic figure 'a'
is shifted from the second beat to the first beat. In consequence,
an almost continuous flow of eighth-notes prevails.
1 The rapid development of harmony since the beginning of Ihc nineteenth century has been Ihc great
obstacle to the acceptance of every new composer from Schubert on. Frequent deviation from the tonic
region into more or less foreign regions seemed to obstruct unity and
intelligibility. However, the most
advanced mind
is still subject to human limitations. Thus composers of this style, instinctively feeling the
danger of incoherence, counteracted the tension in one plane (the complex harmony) by simplification in
another plane (the motival and rhythmic construction). This perhaps also explains the unvaried repetitions
and frequent sequences of Wagner. Bruckner, Debussy, OSsar Franck, Tchaikovsky, Sibelius and many
To Ihc contemporaries of Gustav Mahler, Max Reger, Richard Strauss, Maurice Ravel, etc., far-reaching
harmony no longer seriously endangered comprehensibility, and today—even popular composers make a
living from
it!


===== PDF PAGE 27 =====
CONSTRUCTION OF SIMPLE THEMES (3)


===== PDF PAGE 40 =====
VIII
CONSTRUCTION OF SIMPLE THEMES
4. COMPLETION OF THE SENTENCE
A piece of music resembles in some respects a photograph album, displaying under
changing circumstances the life of its basic idea—its basic motive.
The circumstances which produce these various aspects of the basic motive—its
variations and developments—derive from considerations of variety, structure, ex-
pressiveness, etc.
In contrast to the chronological succession in a photograph album, the order of
motive-forms is conditioned by the requirements of comprehensibility and musical
logic. Thus, repetition, control of variation, delimitation and subdivision regulate
the organization of a piece in its entirety, as well as in its smaller units.
The sentence is a higher form of construction than the period.
It not only makes
a statement of an idea, but at once starts a kind of development. Since development
is the driving force of musical construction, to begin it at once indicates forethought.
The sentence form is much used in leading themes of sonatas, symphonies, etc; but
it
is applicable also to smaller forms.
The beginning of the sentence (Chapter V) already includes repetition; hence, the
continuation demands more remotely varied motive-forms. In masterpieces this has
given rise to a great variety of structures, some of which will be discussed later. But
there are also a great many examples similar to the scheme that will serve as a practice
form.
The practice form will consist, in the simpler cases, of eight measures, of which the
first four comprise a phrase and its repetition. The technique to be applied in the
continuation
is a kind of development, comparable
in some respects
to the con-
densing
technique
of
‘liquidation’.
Development
implies
not
only
growth,
augmentation,
extension and
expansion,
but
also
reduction,
condensation and
intensification. The purpose of liquidation
is
to counteract
the tendency toward
unlimited extension.
Liquidation consists in gradually eliminating characteristic features, until only un-
characteristic ones remain, which no longer demand a continuation. Often only resi-
dues remain, which have little in common with the basic motive. In conjunction with
a cadence or half cadence, this process can be used to provide adequate delimitation
for a sentence.
The
liquidation
is
generally supported by a shortening of the phrase. Thus
in
CONSTRUCTION OF SIMPLE THEMES (4)
Exs. 52a and b, the two-measure phrases are reduced or condensed 1 (in m. 5-6) to
one measure; and in Ex. 52c, four measures are condensed to two measures (m. 9-10
and 11-12).
This procedure sometimes results in
still smaller units:
in Ex. 52b a
half-measure ; in Ex. 52c one measure.
The end of a sentence calls for the same treatment as the consequent of a period.
A sentence may close on
I, V or III, with a suitable cadence:
full, half, Phrygian,
plagal
; perfect or imperfect; according to
its function.
COMMENT ON EXAMPLES
Exs. 54, 55 and 56 are based on the broken-chord form. Ex. lb. By progressive varia-
tion (Exs. 54a, b, c) a motive-form is reached which can be used to build sentences of
sharply contrasted character. The endings lead to V and III in major; to v and V in
minor. To indicate how easy it is to change the cadence region, even at the very end,
alternatives are added for Exs. 56a and b, ending in the region of the relative major
(study also the Trio of Beethoven's Op. 28-111).
Sequence-like procedures2 are very useful in the continuation of a sentence. The
pattern for such sequence treatment is usually a transformation or condensation of
preceding motive-forms. Assuming a correct harmonic connexion, the pattern may
begin on any degree.
The quasi-sequential repetitions in Exs. 54, 55 and 56 are more or less free trans-
positions of the pattern a whole- or half-tone up or down, except in Ex. 56b where
the interval
is a fourth down.
' Reduction may be accomplished by merely omitting a part of the model. Condensation implies com-
pressing the content of the model, whereby even the order of the features may be somewhat changed.
‘ A sequence,
in
its strictest meaning,
is a repetition of a segment or unit in
its entirety, including the
harmony and the accompanying voices, transposed to another degree.
A sequence can be executed without using other than diatonic tones; in such cases, the harmony remains
centripetal', i.e. centred about the tonic region. Diatonic sequences express the tonality clearly and do not
endanger balance in the continuation.
When substitutes ('altered' or 'chromatic' chords) arc used, the tendency of the harmony may become
'centrifugal'—may produce modulations, to balance which becomes a problem. Substitutes should be used
primarily to reinforce the logic of the progression, carefully observing the quasi-melodic function of the
substitute tones. For example, a substituted major third tends to lead upward, while a substituted minor
third leads down.
The pattern for a sequence must be so built, harmonically and melodically, that it introduces the degree on
which the sequence
is to begin, and provides a smooth melodic connexion.


===== PDF PAGE 41 =====
60
CONSTRUCTION OF THEMES
CONSTRUCTION OF SIMPLE THEMES f4)
The patterns' reveal various ways of combining and transforming preceding motive-
forms. Only in Exs. 54d and 55b is the order the same as in the first phrase. In Exs.
54e,f the order is reversed (‘b’—
‘a’). In Ex. 56, only ‘b’ and ‘c’ are used. Note that the
pattern in Ex. 55a begins with a transposition of that feature which ended the pre-
ceding phrase (*cl\ m. 8) and associates
it with
‘b’ in the form used in m. 3 and
7.
Observe also the treatment of the motive of the accompaniment, ‘e’, which (as shown
by the analysis in terms of 6/4 metre) is shifted from the weak to the strong measure
in m. 9-10.
Illustrations from the literature
Among Exs. 57-61, from Bach, Haydn, Mozart, Schubert and Brahms, there arc
cases in which the scheme, tonic form—dominant form,
is replaced by a different
kind of repetition (sec Chapter V).
In almost
all of these the continuation after the repetition of the
first phrase
is
carried out with condensed phrases giving way to a cadence contour, described in the
preceding chapter. Generally these closing measures employ only residues of the basic
motive.
As a practice form is only an abstraction from art forms, sentences from master-
works often differ considerably from the scheme. Among the illustrations the most
obvious deviation lies in the number of measures—there may be either more or less
than eight (or multiples of eight). The beginning of Mozart’s Overture to The Marriage
of Figaro (Ex. 59/) is only seven measures.
A length exceeding eight measures
is often caused by the use of remote motive-
forms, whose establishment demands more than a single repetition; or by the con-
nexion of units of unequal size (e.g. one measure plus two measures); or by insertions.
Ex 536 is such a case. The motive-form in m.
5, though based on the interval of a
third, derives indirectly from the figure marked ‘b’, which could be understood as an
embellished syncopation. This is a very remote variation, whose repetitions account
for the length of twelve measures.
It is characteristic of Mozart’s Rococo technique to produce irregularity within the
phrasing through interpolation of incidental repetitions of small segments, residues of
a preceding phrase.
In Ex. 59a, after the two one-measure phrases in m. 5 and 6, a segment of three
measures (repeated with a slight variation) appears. The example could be reduced to
ten measures if m. 10-12 were omitted. Testing which measures could be omitted is
the best method to discover what causes the extension. Omitting m. 7-1 1 would reduce
the example to the eight measures of the practice form, indicating that these measures
should be considered an insertion, from which the extension results.
In Ex. 59b, m. 5-6 could be omitted.1
> The succession of two 6/4 chords in m. 7 and 9 is most unusual. One might suspect a misprint for such a
In Ex. 59c the omission of m. 7-8 reduces the ten measures to eight.
Ex. 59d is more complicated. The end of this sentence coincides with (overlaps) the
beginning of a repetition. Nevertheless,
it cannot be considered less than nine mea-
sures. The extension
is produced by a sequence in m. 6-7.
In Ex. 59/;. m. 5-6 are made up of remotely varied motive-forms, because of which
a modified repetition follows in m.
7-8. Such extra repetitions are certainly con-
sequences of the requirements of comprehensibility.
The ending (on VI) of Ex. 60a is unusual. Still more unusual
is the anticipation of
VI (through a deceptive cadence) in m.
10. Were this not the work of a master one
would be inclined to call it a weakness. Certainly either of the two alternative versions
would
be
safer
for a
student. These
last four measures make the impression of
codettas; if they are, the preceding eight measures might be considered a period. But
analysis as a sentence is supported by the similarity of the two segments, m. 1-4 and
m. 5
S. to tonic form and dominant form. This hypothesis would lead one to expect
a continuation of eight measures.
In Ex. 60c the beginning, on Vf-II, is remarkable. The Finale of Beethoven's Siring
Quartet, Op.
130, begins similarly.
In Ex. 60c the (quasi-sequential) repetition of a short segment (m. 7-12) and the
condensation in the cadence show a certain similarity to the practice form. Otherwise,
the preceding six measures have merely an introductory character.
The first six measures of Ex. 60/consist of two units of three measures each, organ-
ized similarly to the tonic- and dominant-form. These three-measure segments are not
produced by reduction or extension, but by quasi-sequential insertions, repetitions of
m. 2 and 4.
1
Omitting m. 7-11 and m.
13 would reduce Ex. 60/; to the eight measures of the
practice form. However, m. 7—14 could also be considered as an independent addition
of four measures with a varied repetition. Though *a5
’ is an augmentation of ‘a’, the
phrase in m. 7-8 must be considered a remote variation, justifying the repetition.
The analysis of Ex. 61a shows that the theme is less complicated than it appears at
first glance. (The theme or melody need not, of course, always be in the highest voice.
Accompaniment and melody may exchange places in various ways. Naturally, the
bass as thal indicated below m. 6-7. Such a treatment of a 6/4 chord would scarcely be found elsewhere in
Mozart. But since he uses the same 6/4 for a cadence to 1 (m. 25, 27), one must abandon the idea of a misprint.
Misprint or stroke of genius, it is hardly a model for the student to imitate.
' Schubert was distinctly one of the pioneers in the field of harmony. The singularity of his harmonic
feeling can be observed in the ending of Ex. 606. As a varied repetition of m.
1-8, m. 9-16 should end on
I
: but instead the repetition ends on the subdominant
! That this is no weakness is evident from the recapitula-
tion. which starts on the subdominant (instead of the tonic) but ends on the tonic, though a strict
trans-
position would have ended on An. Thus the harmonic scheme is 1-IV
: IV-I. If he had used the procedure of
the recapitulation in m. 15-16, the cadence would have led in m. 16 to V.
Such discussion
is not intended as criticism of the masters, but rather as a warning to the student against
haimonic procedures which arc beyond his control.


===== PDF PAGE 42 =====
62
CONSTRUCTION OF THEMES
meaning of the harmony must not be obscured, as
it might be by misplaced 6/4
chords.)
Ex. 616 has
little in common with the practice form except for the repetitions of
smaller segments (m. 5, 6) and the cadential process, in which the one-measure phrases
of m. 3 and 4 are reduced to half-measure residues in m. 7-8, as confirmed by the
phrasing in the accompaniment.
It has been stated that homophonic music can be
called the style of ‘developing variation’. Ex. 616 is a very clear illustration. The ana-
lysis shows that all the motive-forms and phrases of this melody develop gradually
out of the first three notes, or perhaps even out of the first two notes.
Ex. 6 \<l would be eight measures were it not for the insertion of the motive-form ‘b’
and
its
repetition ‘b,’ (m. 3). The refrain-like recurrence of the opening phrase in
m. 8-9 is remarkable.
All these more complicated structures can be related to the practice form by generaliz-
ing the concept on which the practice form was based. The tonic- and dominant-forms
(or any comparable twofold statement, even if incomplete) may be considered as the
establishment of an idea and of a tonality; thus, the foundation
is laid for drawing
inferences.
In
higher art forms,
after such an adequate establishment, remotely
varied motive-forms may appear at once, without endangering comprehensibility.
The appropriate treatment of the remote motive-forms, through varied or sequential
repetitions, then justifies irregularity in length, and unusual harmonization.
Applying this generalization to Ex. 57a, it becomes apparent that after a twolold
statement of a basic phrase, such remote derivatives can be used as appear in m. 5-6.
On the other hand, the analysis shows the motival connexion. The extension
is pro-
duced by the sequence in m. 6.


===== PDF PAGE 43 =====


===== PDF PAGE 52 =====
IX
THE ACCOMPANIMENT
The accompaniment should not be a mere addition.
It should be as functional as
possible, and at best should act as a complement to the essentials of its subject
: the
tonality, rhythm, phrasing, contour, character and mood. It should reveal the inherent
harmony of the theme, and establishes a unifying motus. It should satisfy the necessi-
ties and exploits the resources of the instrument (or group of instruments).
Accompaniment becomes imperative
if the harmony or rhythm
is complicated.
In descriptive music, the accompaniment contributes much to the expressive sonority.
OMISSIBILIT Y OF THE ACCOMPANIMENT
Of course, unaccompanied music exists, in folk music, ancient church
music,
solo sonatas for various instruments, etc. Unaccompanied segments often appear in
otherwise accompanied music. But even
in simple folk music, where the melody
requires no harmonic support, an accompaniment (not structurally
required)
is
often added.
Any harmonically
self-sufficient melodic segment may remain unaccompanied,
supplying contrast and transparency which may contribute to the character of the
piece. Transparency is a merit in itself. Moreover, pauses never sound bad!
Upbeats often remain unaccompanied, if there is no question about the harmonic
meaning. See, for example, Beethoven, Op. 2/1— II and III; Op. 2/2—III ; Op.7-IV,etc.
Frequently, the beginning segment of a theme
is unaccompanied (or in unison).
Op. 2/1-1; Op. 10/1—III; Op. 10/2-1 1; Op. 10/3-1 (m. 1^1 and m. 17-22); Op. 26-IV;
Op. 28—111 ;
l Op. 57-1.
An unaccompanied
beginning where
the
treatment
is contrapuntal
or
semi-
contrapuntal is self-explanatory. Op. 2/3— III ; Op. 10/2—III.
Unaccompanied figures within a theme also occur. Op. 2/1-1; Op.
10/2-1; Op.
10/3-1, m. 56 ff. and m. 105 ff.
The end of an elaboration
is often unaccompanied. Op.
2/2, Rondo, m. 95
ff.
;
Op.
2/3, Scherzo, m. 37 ff.; Op. 13-1, m. 187 ff. Op. 53, Rondo presents a special
case (m. 98 ff.), where the remodulation from the relative minor to tonic is carried out
in simple unison.
Though the omission of accompaniment may contribute to transparency, it should
1 A piquant ambiguity. The/# could suggest the keys of Ft or B (major or minor). That it implies D is
only unmasked in m. 5-8.
THE ACCOMPANIMENT
be confined to self-explanatory segments. Accompaniment ofharmonically ambiguous
passages is mandatory.
THE MOTIVE OF THE ACCOMPANIMENT
As a unifying device the accompaniment must be organized in a manner similar to the
organization of a theme
: by utilization ofa motive, the motive of the accompaniment.
The motive of the accompaniment can seldom be worked out with as much variety
and development as that of a melody, or theme.
Its treatment consists, rather, of
simple rhythmic repetition, and adaptation to the harmony. Its special form must be
so constituted that
it can be modified, liquidated or abandoned, as the nature of the
theme demands.
Chorale-like. This kind of accompaniment
is rather seldom used in instrumental
music. One finds it more often in homophonic choral music, in which all the voices
sing the same rhythm according to the text, as in the Pilgrim’s Chorus from Wagner’s
Tannhauser, Ex. 62a. Some examples from instrumental music are shown in Exs.
626, c and d. See also Beethoven, Op. 14/2-11; Op. 31/3—III, Trio; Op. 53-1, m. 35 ff.;
Op. 78-11; Op. 27/2-1 1; Ex. 476.
Figuration. The requirements of piano style arc better fulfilled through the use of
broken chords, although the voice leading remains essentially chorale-like. Compare
Ex. 63a with Ex. 636, from which
it
is an extract. As in this case, a broken-chord
accompaniment will use one or more special figures systematically—the motive of
the accompaniment.
In general the accompaniment makes use of shorter notes than the melody (Exs.
46c, 48</, 49a, 506, 51 d, 606). However, the contrary also occurs (Ex. 47c). There arc
also innumerable cases like Ex. 45/.
The manner in which a figure can be maintained and adapted to the harmony can
be seen in Op. 2/1-1, m. 20-21 and 26 ff.; Op. 2/1-11, m. 9
ff. and 37 ff.; Op. 2/2-1,
m. 58 ff.; Op. 10/3-II, m. 65 ff.
; Op. 10/3—111, Trio, etc. This type of accompaniment
is usually not much more than
figurated chorale harmony, and may
lie in lower,
middle or upper voices.
The
motive
of the accompaniment
often
includes
auxiliaries,
appoggiaturas,
changing notes, etc. (Op. 2/3-II, m. 11
ff.; Op. 7-1V, m. 64 ff.; Op. 10/2-1, m. 19 ff.).
Sometimes
it
includes a semi-contrapuntal movement of one of the voices (Op.
10/1-1, m. 56 ff.).
The broken chords may of course be distributed
in open
position
(Exs. 49a,
64a, 6, c). The Romantic style of transcription for piano is illustrated in Ex. 64d. The
figure in the
left hand does not appear in the orchestral score. This technique of
making the piano ‘roar’ was much abused during the nineteenth century.


===== PDF PAGE 53 =====
84
CONSTRUCTION OF THEMES
The method of repeating full chords (Op. 53-1; Exs. 59a. d) is related to the repeti-
tion of harmonies in broken-chord style. It derives from the same circumstance: the
desire to revive the short-lived tone of the piano.
Sometimes more than one motive of the accompaniment appears,
e.g. when the
bass, separated from the system of the middle voices, carries out a system of its own
(Exs. 64e,/). This procedure
is frequently used
in combination with rhythmicized
chord repetitions (Ex. 65). Occasionally, the bass is systematically placed on a weak
beat (Exs. 65q-l).
Intermittent. The harmony may appear only once in a measure, or once in several
measures. It may be sustained (Op. 2/3-1, m. 97-108; Ex. 58h); or a short chord may
be stated at the beginning of a measure (Op. 10/1-1, m. 1-3; Op. 10/2-1, m. 1-4; Exs.
58c,/); or a short chord may occur during a rest or a sustained note of the melody
(Op. 2/2-111, m. 1-2, 5-6; Ex. 46d).
Afterbeat harmony, including syncopations, appears in many forms, e.g. Op. 2/1-1,
m. 2-8, 41-46; Op. 2/2, Scherzo; Op. 14/1-1, m.
1-3.
Complementary. Complementary rhythm is that relation between voices or groups
of voices in which one voice
fills out the gaps in the movement of the others, thus
maintaining the motus,
i.e. the regular subdivision of the measure. The accompani-
ment
is often added as a complement to the basic rhythm of the principal part (Op.
14/2—1, m. 1-4, 26-27, etc.; Op. 109-1, m. 1-8; Exs. 67a, b; Op. 2/2, Scherzo). There
exist many hybrid cases like Op. 10/3-IV,m. 17-22; Op. 3I/2-III, especially m. 17-21;
Op. 54-1, m. 1-2-5-6. Other cases derive from semi-contrapuntal devices (Exs. 45d,
66a, 67c).
VOICE LEADING
Piano style does not require strict preservation of the number of voices, as in four-
part (chorale) harmony. If a piece starts in three or four parts, this number of parts
will be used rather consistently. But sometimes fewer voices are used (as if one or more
rested) and sometimes more are used (as in the orchestra, when for a crescendo,
accentuation, climax or other special effect, additional instruments enter).
If the basic voice-leading is free from parallel octaves, each individual voice can be
doubled in octaves, especially if the doubling is consistently maintained, as in Ex. 63.
Doubling of the bass can produce variety or contrast through change of register.
In Ex. 45g, compare m. 1-2 and 5-6 with 3-4 and 7-8; and in Ex. 46a, compare 5-8
with
1-4. The melody, of course, is often doubled. See, for instance, Exs. 46e and
60e; and Beethoven, Op.
10/1-1, m. 108 ff.; Op.
10/2-1, m.
19
flf. ; Op.
14/1-1, m.
6t
; Op. 26-1, Variation III. Sometimes, even the inner voices are doubled (Exs. 66b.
c). Such doubling may appear incidentally for some special effect.
Contrapuntal treatment. A
real contrapuntal
style appears
occasionally, when
fugues or fugatos are incorporated in otherwise homophonic music. Sometimes
a
THE ACCOMPANIMENT
85
movement begins with a fugato (Op. 10/2—III
; Mozart’s String Quartet in G, Finale;
Beethoven’s String Quartet, Op. 59/3, Finale, etc.). Though such sections arc often
repeated in a more developed form, the remainder should generally be classified as
homophonic.
In the elaboration division (development) of larger forms, there are frequently
fugato episodes (Beethoven’s String Quartet, Op. 59/ 1 -I ; first and fourth movements
of his Eroica Symphony; third movement of Brahms’s Piano Quintet; Beethoven,
Op. 101, Finale; etc.).
Beethoven (Op. 120, Op. 35) and Brahms (Op. 24) conclude sets of variations with
real fugues; and the finales of Beethoven's Sonatas, Op.
106 and Op.
110, are also
fugues.
Contrapuntal episodes, generally using imitations or invertible counterpoint, are
frequently to be found
in elaborations. See Op. 2/3-1, m. 115 ff.; Op. 22, Rondo,
m. 81 ff.; Op. 81a-I,Coda. The canonic passage beginning the E[> section of Op. 106-1
is unusually long.
Semi- and quasi-contrapuntal treatment. While semi-counterpoint has motival and
even thematic implications, quasi-counterpoint
is often
little more than a way of
embellishing, melodizing and vitalizing otherwise unimportant voices in the harmony.
Semi-counterpoint
is not based on combinations such as multiple counterpoint,
canonic imitations, etc., but only on a free melodic movement of one or more voices,
as in Op. 2/2-1, m. 11-16 and the imitations in m. 32 ff.; also Op. 2/3-IV, m. 57 ff.
In real homophonic music there
is always one main voice; the addition of imita-
tions, canonic or free,
is principally a method of accompanying this main voice.
Ostinatos such as, for example, those in Brahms’s First Symphony—IV, eight mea-
sures after ‘E\ and in the Finale of the Variations on a Theme ofHaydn, may be under-
stood similarly. Considering the bass as the main voice, this technique resembles the
adding of voices to a ‘cantus firmus’, constantly varying the texture, as in a passa-
caglia.
The addition of a countcrmelody could also be considered a semi-contrapuntal
device. See Op. 26-11, m. 45 ff.; Op. 28-1, m. 183
ff. (this passage, like Op.
10/3-1,
m. 93-105, is in double counterpoint; but the part in eighth-notes has an embellishing
rather than a thematic significance); Op. 31 /l— III, m. 17 ff.
Countermelodic phrases or fragments are often used to embellish a repetition (Op.
10/3—II: compare m. 17-19 with 21-23) or as bridge-like fillers (Op. 13—11, m. 37 ff.)
between phrases of the principal voice.
Many illustrations of semi-contrapuntal treatment can be found in Exs. 54, 55 and
56. Special attention should be paid to those cases where the harmony becomes richer
through the movement of the voices ; and where the motive of the accompaniment
involves a
characteristic rhythmic
figure, often the
result of a more or less free
imitation.


===== PDF PAGE 54 =====
86
CONSTRUCTION OF THEMES
Both semi- and quasi-counterpoint are illustrated in Op. 10/1—I. In m. 48-55 both
upper voices are so well organized that it is difficult to say which
is main voice and
which
is countermelody.
In
the
continuation (m.
56-85), the bass moves more
melodically than the presentation of the harmony would require, without, however,
becoming a countermelody.
The lowest voice in Op.
14/2-1, m. 49 ff., imitates quasi-contrapuntally only the
phrasing of the melody. Similarly, the auxiliaries in Op. 31/1 -II, m. 16 ff., though dis-
guised as imitations, embellish sustained tones of the harmony. The imitations of
Op. 28-1V, m. 28-31 and 33-35, are definitely not contrapuntal, since they present
only one harmony.
TREATMENT OF THE BASS LINE
Except in the case of a pedal point, the bass should participate in every change of
the harmony. One must not forget that the bass should be treated like a secondary
melody, which means that
it should remain (except for special purposes) within a
single register and possess a certain degree of continuity (Exs. 44g,
i, j, k, 45/, 46a,
51 b). The ear is trained to pay much attention to the bass. Even a short note is under-
stood as a continuing bass
until another bass note can be heard as a (melodic)
continuation.
For the sake of fluency a bass which is not countermelodic should make free use
of inversions, even where they are not harmonically necessary (Exs. 45g, 46c, g, 51/,
58d, 59g).
TREATMENT OF THE MOTIVE OF THE ACCOMPANIMENT
In many cases a single motive of accompaniment
is used consistently throughout
a whole section, except for cadences. This is possible only in the most primitive cases,
in which the harmony does not change much, and the motive
is readily adaptable
(e.g. the obsolete Alberti bass).
Changes of character or construction, or increase in the number of harmonies, may
justify or even require modification of the accompaniment. A clear change in all these
respects isfoundinOp. 14/2-1 ; compare m. 1-4 with m. 5 ff. In Op. 31/1-II, where the
climactic ascension in the melody requires richer harmony, the motive of accompani-
ment is modified accordingly (m. 5). In Op. 3 1/3— III, the special form of the broken
chord figure is reduced (m. 3 ff.) to no more than is necessary to keep up the motus.
The motive of the accompaniment, as a unifying device, should be maintained for
at least several measures or phrases. Even if varied, it should not disappear completely.
But cases exist in which more than one figure is used, especially in Mozart’s Rococo
style, as many of the excerpts in Exs. 45 and 59 prove.
Harmonic requirements in the vicinity of cadences or half cadences often force
modification or liquidation of the motive of accompaniment. This process may take
THE ACCOMPANIMENT
87
a variety of forms. See, for instance, Exs. 45/, 46/ 48c, 51a, 55a, b, 56b, 58c, 59g,
h, 61 d.
REQUIREMENTS OF INSTRUMENTS
In piano writing the necessity of keeping the accompaniment within reach of the
fingers sometimes requires co-operation of both hands (Op. 2/3-1, m.
141 ff; Op.
1 3—II, m. 41-42 ff.) or a
shift from hand to hand—with or without a change of
register (Op. 27/2-1, m. 15-16, 23-24; Op. 31/2-1, m. 28 ff.). Changes of register also
take place for reasons of expressiveness or sonority.
In writing for other than keyboard instruments, the individual parts should be
elaborated more independently,
in order to sustain the interest of the players. But
there is danger of imbalance produced by too rich an accompaniment. Economy and
transparency are indispensable.
The variety of chamber-music combinations precludes detailed discussion of the
accompaniment. But, intelligently applied, the principles are the same as for keyboard
instruments.


===== PDF PAGE 58 =====
CONSTRUCTION OF THEMES
¥
CHARACTER AND MOOD
95
94
principal means of distinguishing a mazurka, for example, from a gavotte or a polka.
But, in general, rhythmic features help to establish the mood and special character
of an
individual
piece, as
well as to provide
the structurally necessary
internal
contrasts.
The concept of difference in character can be clarified by comparison of three
movements from Beethoven sonatas which are similar in that they express something
‘stormy’ or ‘passionate’ (Op. 27/2—III ; Op. 31/2-1; Op.
57-1). The differences
in
character manifest themselves not only in the thematic material of the openings, but
also in the nature of the continuations. Compare the respective subordinate themes:
Op. 27/2-111, m. 21 ff; Op. 31/2-1, m. 41 ff; Op. 57-1, m. 35
ff.
How little the tempo alone contributes to character will be realized if one compares
these three with three others in rapid tempo: the Presto Agitato of Op. 27/2—III with
the Allegro Vivace of Op. 31/1—I; or the Allegro of Op. 31/2-1 with the Allegro of
Op. 31/3-1; or the Assai Allegro of Op. 57-1 with the Presto alia Tedesca of Op. 79-1.
But the changes of character within a single movement—even within
its smaller
sections—are even more important. Apart from the strong contrast between principal
and subordinate themes in Op. 57-1, there are many other contrasts. Note the sudden
change of texture in m. 24, its intensification in m. 28 ff., and its gradual liquidation,
m. 31
ff. How dramatic
is the change of expression when ‘dolce
legato', m.
35,
replaces the previous hard staccato of the
left hand; and when the movement sud-
denly stops in m. 41. A new and even stronger contrast in texture (m. 51) changes the
entire aspect of the rest of this section.
This is not a singular case. All good music consists of many contrasting ideas. An
idea achieves distinctness and validity in contrast with others. Heraclitus called con-
trast ‘the principle of development’. Musical thinking is subject to the same dialectic
as all other thinking.
Differences of character may have an influence on the structure, but no particular
character can be said to demand a particular form. Though one would scarcely write
a waltz in the form of a symphony, Beethoven wrote the first movement of a sonata
(Op. 54) ‘In tempo d’un Menuetto’ ; and his Seventh Symphony, because of its charac-
ter, is commonly called the ‘Dance Symphony’. But, in general, light, graceful, simple
moods will not require complicated forms nor adventurous elaboration. On the other
hand, profound ideas, deeply moving emotions, heroic attitudes, require the bold
contrasts and thorough elaboration of more complex forms.
Descriptive music—such as programme music; stage,
ballet and moving picture
music; melodramas; and even songs—under pressure of strong and sudden contrasts,
develops its forms in harmony with those emotions, events and actions which
it is
supposed to illustrate. In such cases the basic motive
itself possesses a descriptive
character or mood as illustrated in Ex. 68.
In the second movement of Beethoven’s Pastorale Symphony (Ex. 68a), the sound
of the murmuring brook is illustrated by the flowing movement of the accompani-
ment. Ex. 68ft, the Magic Fire Music from Wagner’s Die Walkiire, expresses musically
the flickering flames. With an equally rich movement, Smetana describes the source
of the River Moldau (Ex. 68c). Bach’s St. Matthew Passion is rich in illustrative pas-
sages. Among them, particularly striking because
it appears in a recitative,
is the
description of the rending of the curtain (Ex. 68d). The swing of the weathervane is
depicted in Schubert’s The Weathervane, and characteristically enough, the trills in
m. 4 and 5 represent its creaking (Ex. 68c).
In composing even the smallest exercises, the student should never fail to keep in
mind a special character. A poem, a story, a play or a moving picture may provide the
stimulus to express definite moods. The pieces which he composes should differ widely.
Especially fruitful are differences in tempo, rhythm and metre. Such practice will help
him to acquire the capacity to produce the manifold types of contrast necessary for
larger forms.


===== PDF PAGE 59 =====


===== PDF PAGE 60 =====
MELODY AND THEME
XI
MELODY AND THEME
The concentration of the main idea in a single melodic line requires a special kind
of balance and organization, only partly explicable in terms oftechnique. Instinctively,
every music lover knows what a melody is. Instinctively, also, one who has talent may
be able to write a melody without technical advice. But such melodies seldom possess
the perfection of higher art. Therefore some guidance, based on musical literature, as
well as on historical, aesthetic and technical considerations, will be provided.
Instrumental melodies admit much more freedom in every respect than vocal. But
freedom prospers best when under control. Accordingly, the restrictions of vocal
melody offer a sounder starting-point.
VOCAL MELODY
A melody could hardly include unmclodious elements; the concept of the melodious
is intimately related to the concept of singableness. The nature and technique of the
primordial musical instrument, the voice, determines what is singable. The concept of
the melodious in instrumental melody has developed as a free adaptation from the
vocal model.
Singableness, in a more popular sense, implies relatively long notes; smooth linkage
of the registers; movement in waves, more stepwise than by leaps; avoidance of aug-
mented and diminished
intervals; adherence to
the
tonality and
its most closely
related regions; employment of the natural intervals of a key; gradual modulation;
and a cautious use of dissonance.
Additional restrictions derive from the registers of the voice, and from the diffi-
culties of intonation (unless he possesses a memory for absolute pitch, the singer has
no yardstick whatever for intonation).
The highest register of a voice is ‘vulnerable’
; its use is always a strain on the singer.
To remain too long in it tires the voice. But used carefully, it really produces a climax,
for which
it should be reserved (a structural consideration). The lowest register
is
stronger than the middle register, but should not be overburdened with too much
dramatic expression. The middle register
is not capable of extreme expression and
offers no great dynamic compass, but within these limits
it is the most convenient
register of every voice. And the registers differ not only in volume, but also in colour
(timbre). Sudden changes of register endanger the unity of tone quality, a difficulty
which, however, well-trained artists know how to overcome. The voice needs a certain
99
minimal time to develop a full sound. Accordingly, rapid notes, especially staccatos,
and such notes as ask for a strong accentuation (sforzati, etc.), are difficult, though
they are not beyond the ability of a virtuoso.
Support of intonation, through harmony, is almost indispensable, especially at the
beginning. Chromaticism, augmented intervals (or successions of them), and tones (or
tone successions) which cannot be related to the harmony, especially
if outside the
tonality, offer difficulties.
Of course, not all the augmented or diminished intervals in Ex. 69, when accom-
panied by comprehensible harmony, are excessively difficult. But some, like e,f m,
n, o, p, q , r and
I are not easy. Successive leaps like those in Ex. 70, having a compass
of a seventh or ninth, should be avoided.
Chromaticism is difficult partly because the natural semi-tones differ in size from
the tempered (a fact which causes choirs to get off pitch
1
); but sparingly used it need
not be avoided. The dissonances in Exs. l\a~d, as circumscribing or embellishing
notes, can easily be understood. Such cases as those in Exs. 71 e-g require highly de-
veloped technical skill, while those of Ex. 72 are difficult to justify.
Prior to the great changes which began in the first quarter of the nineteenth century,
aestheticians could
define melody
in terms of beauty, expressiveness,
simplicity,
naturalness, tunefulness, singableness, unity, proportion and balance. But taking into
account the development of harmony and its influence on every concept of musical
aesthetics,
it
is obvious that earlier definitions of ‘theme’ and ‘melody’, ‘melodious’
and ‘unmclodious’, are no longer adequate.
Illustrations front the literature
Each of the quotations from the vocal literature (Exs. 73-91) contradicts in some
respect the older limitations imposed on melody.
Among the examples from Schubert’s
Winterreise, Op. 89, the modulation in the
fifth measure of Ex. 73a is unusually sudden and remote. In Ex. 736 a leap of a tenth
appears; and in Ex. 73c the ‘Stormy Morning’ is pictured so realistically and in such
rapid tempo that
it becomes difficult to sing.
In Ex. 74a (Brahms) the range spans an eleventh within two measures; in Ex. 74h
a syncopated rhythm almost obscures the phrasing
; in Ex. 74c, ‘The Forge’, the illu-
stration of the upswinging hammer precludes a natural legato and forces upon the
voice a staccato accentuation. But
in Ex. 74d Brahms contradicts his own rule: ‘The
melody of a song should be such that one could whistle it’ (i.e. without accompani-
ment, without the support of an explanatory harmony). Try to whistle this melody!
Difficulties of intonation are also involved in Ex. 75 (Grieg), Ex. 76 (Wolf) and
Ex. 77 (Mahler). In the latter example not only the intervals and the rapid tempo,
1 A singer should be trained to the intervals of the tempered scale, which is a convention deviating from
the natural acoustical intervals, to assure correct musical intonation.
r*


===== PDF PAGE 61 =====
100
CONSTRUCTION OF THEMES
but especially the passionate expression, makes the impression of an instrumental,
rather than a vocal, melody.
Such treatment of the voice
is largely attributable to Richard Wagner who, for
dramatic purposes, often went beyond the limits of the voice. Observe, in the wonder-
ful melody of Ex. 78a, how often he uses the highest register in this explosive outburst
of emotion ; how suddenly he jumps to the lowest register; what difficult and dissonant
intervals are included within short phrases ; how many syllables have to be pronounced
in this rapid tempo (x); and observe especially the ending of this section (xx) with
a leap of a ninth. Exs. 78b, c and d are historically interesting, since Wagner’s great
critical opponent, Eduard Hanslick, maliciously quoted them to ridicule Wagner's
’melodious’ voice writing.
No wonder that Debussy (Ex. 79) and Richard Strauss (Ex. 80), as followers of most
of Wagner’s musico-dramatic principles, took advantage of this progress in writing
for the voice, progress in writing which did not turn out to enhance singability.
The Italian composers, renowned for their great understanding and respect for the
voice, could not escape Wagner’s influence. The
Italian
singer’s
facility
in
rapid
enunciation (even superior to that of the French and Spanish), and in pronouncing
many successive syllables, has always allowed Italian composers to write such rapid
small notes as in Ex. 81, from Rossini's Barber ofSeville. By comparison, the examples
from German music, Mozart's Magic Flute (Ex.
82), Beethoven’s Fidelio (Ex. 83)
and Schubert's Ungeduld (Ex. 84), seem slow; and so does the French example from
Auber's Fra Diavolo (Ex. 85). But Verdi, in Otello (Ex. 86), surpasses these latter in
velocity, and surpasses Rossini in difficulty, by using a chromatic scale (x), and by
introducing a surprising change of metre (xx).
Melodic progressions, like those of Moussorgsky (Ex. 87), undoubtedly influenced
by Oriental folk-music, in turn influenced Western melodic writing. The example from
Puccini (Ex. 88) is also folkloristic (pseudo-Chinese). Though Puccini was always pro-
gressive in his harmony, the extreme modernism of this example is exceptional.
On
the other hand,
in Ex.
89,
the music of Tchaikovsky, a contemporary of
Moussorgsky, shows no relation
to folklore, but
rather to the average harmonic
feeling of the epoch; it resembles music of the Norwegian, Grieg (Ex. 75), more than
that of his Russian compatriots.
The examples from Bizet’s Carmen (Ex. 90) and from songs by Schoenberg (Ex. 9 1
)
arc based on extended tonality. The ear of the modern musician has gradually ac-
quired the capacity to comprehend the most remote harmonies as coherent elements
of a tonality. To composers of the Wagnerian and post-Wagnerian epoch, the use of
such intervals and progressions as in Ex. 91, even in melodies, was as natural as the
use of scalewise movement or broken chords to their predecessors.
The preceding discussion has perhaps only clarified the limits of the melodious,
but has not determined what
is unmelodious.
MELODY AND THEME
Imbalance, incoherence, inadequate integration with the harmony or accompani-
ment, incongruity of phrasing and rhythm, are criteria of the unmelodious. A musi-
cian of the nineties might have objected to Ex. 806 from Strauss's Salome, on the
grounds that the multitude of incoherent rhythmic features produces imbalance, and
makes the phrasing—which should contribute to understanding—incomprehensible.
Moreover,
it would be difficult to imagine with what harmony the melody of Ex. 80a
could be integrated.
But in works of the post-Wagnerian composers, the voice does not always have the
main melody (an excuse—but only an excuse—for imbalance). Where so many fea-
tures contradict the melodious, the man of the nineties would not be entirely wrong
to call these cases unmelodious. However, with the passage of time the concepts have
changed considerably.
INSTRUMENTAL MELODY
The freedom of instrumental melodies is also restricted by the technical limitations
of the various instruments. These limitations differ in nature and degree, particularly
with respect to the compass, from those of vocal music. Nevertheless, an instrumental
melody should
still be such that, ideally,
it could be sung,
if only by a voice of in-
credible capacity.
To the contemporary car the difference between instrumental and vocal melodies
in classical music does not seem very great. With slight changes the difference can be
eliminated. For instance, the leading subject of Beethoven's Rondo, Op. 2/2-IV,
is
distinctly pianistic.
In Ex. 92 the brilliant arpeggio of the first measure
is simplified,
which automatically eliminates the large leap of m. 2. The result is a perfectly singable
melody. Such adaptation to the requirements of the voice was often used in classical
operas. Sometimes, when the voice repeated an instrumental melody from the pre-
lude, the melody was simplified, as in Ex. 93; or embellished as in Ex. 94.
But even in the Beethoven piano sonatas there are many melodies which could be
sung by any singer. See. for example, the leading subjects of Op. 2/2-1 1; Op. 7-1 V;
Op. 10/1— II ; Op. 10/3-111; Op. 13-11, etc.
Many sections, in instrumental music, cannot be called melodies, though they may
contain nothing unmelodious. Some are etude-like, c.g. Op. 7-1 V, m. 64; Op.
10/2-1,
m. 95
ff. ; Op. 22-IV, the semi-contrapuntal section, m. 72-79. But others must be
classified as themes, 1 which, precisely defined, differ markedly from melodies in struc-
ture and tendency.
MELODY VERSUS THEME
The term theme
is here used to characterize specific types of structures, of which
many examples can be found in sonatas, symphonies, etc. Perhaps the most clearcut
1 This term is one of the most misused terms in the musical vocabulary. It is applied without discrimination
to many different structures.


===== PDF PAGE 62 =====
102
CONSTRUCTION OF THEMES
among the Beethoven piano sonatas are the leading subjects of Op. 53-1, Op. 57-1,
Op. 27/2-1 1 1 and Op. 111-1.
The clarification of both concepts will best be accomplished by a comparison of
melody and theme.
Every succession of tones produces unrest, conflict, problems. One single tone
is
not problematic because the ear defines it as a tonic, a point of repose. Every added
tone makes this determination questionable. Every musical form can be considered
as an attempt to treat this unrest either by halting or limiting it, or by solving the
problem. A melody re-establishes repose through balance. A theme solves the prob-
lem by carrying out its consequences. The unrest in a melody need not reach below
the surface, while the problem of a theme may penetrate to the profoundest depths.
Since rhythmic characteristics are less decisive in a melody, it could be called two-
dimensional, comprising chiefly interval and latent harmony. On the other hand, the
importance of rhythmic development makes the problem of the theme three-dimen-
sional. (See, for example, Beethoven, Op.
10/1— I, Op. 27/2— III, Op.
14/2-1, Exs.
95a, b.)
Thus a melody can be compared to an ‘apcrcu’, an ‘aphorism’, in its rapid advance
from problem to solution. But a theme resembles rather a scientific hypothesis which
does not convince without a number of tests, without presentation of proof.
The melody also tends to achieve balance in the most direct way. It avoids intensify-
ing the unrest;
it supports comprehensibility by limitation, and
facilitates lucidity
through subdivision;
it extends itself rather by continuation than by elaboration or
development. It uses slightly varied motive-forms, which achieve variety by presenting
the
basic
features
in
different
situations.
It remains within
the
closer harmonic
relationships.
All these restrictions and limitations produce that independence and self-determina-
tion because of which a melody requires no addition, continuation or elaboration.
In contrast, a state of repose will scarcely be reached or attempted early in a theme
;
it will generally sharpen its problem (bringing it to a point) or deepen
it. (Beethoven,
Op. 53-1, Op. 57-1, Op. 31/1-1, Op. 31/2-1.)
Subdivision, often similar to that of a melody, may occur in a theme (Op. 90-1,
Op. 2/2-1).
In a melody the separation is seldom definite, so as to offer an opening for,
or a bridge
to, a continuation.
In themes remotely coherent segments are often
juxtaposed
in a co-ordinate meaning, without connectives (Op. 90-1, Op.
14/2-1).
Seldom
is a theme extended by spinning a continuation for mere formal balance;
rather,
it leaps directly to remote developments of the basic motive (Op. 10/1— I, m.
9, 17; Op. 7-1; Op. 31/2-1; Ex. 95c).
The formulation of a theme assumes that there will follow ‘adventures’, ‘predica-
ments', which ask for solution, for elaboration, for development, for contrast (the
implications are discussed more fully in Chapter XX), The harmony of a theme is often
MELODY AND THEME
103
active, ‘roving’, unstable. Nevertheless, and in spite of remote harmonies, one will
find that even complex themes
still move around a tonic, or a definite contrasting
region (Brahms. First Symphony-1; Piano Quartet, Op. 60-1; Beethoven, Op. 53-1).
The organization cannot be so loose that one might feel a lack of structure.
A rheme is not at all independent and self-determined. On the contrary, it is strictly
bound to consequences which have to be drawn, and without which
it may appear
insignificant.
A melody , classic or contemporary, tends toward regularity, simple repetitions and
even symmetry. Hence,
it generally reveals distinct phrasing. Of course, the length
of a
singer's breath
is no measure for the length of a phrase in an instrumental
melody, but the number of measures in moderate tempo is likely to be about the same
as in a vocal melody.
Theory must be stricter than reality.
It is forced to generalize, and that means re-
duction on the one hand, exaggeration on the other. This description
necessarily
exaggerates the difference between melody and theme. Hybrid forms exist. Sometimes
a melody elaborates
its rhythmical problems, or implies remote harmonies, or
is
structurally complicated, or draws consequences, or is followed by development. On
the other hand, many a theme contains melodic segments, or is based on the simple
construction of the period, or is treated as if it were independent.
All the previous statements are of limited or relative validity. Time has not only
produced a development of the technical means, and widened the concept of theme
and melody in creative minds ; it has also changed our comprehension of music written
in preceding epochs.
In consequence of this development, nobody today would
hesitate to consider the two themes from Beethoven's string quartets in Exs. 96a and b
as melodies, although they are structurally instrumental themes. This impression
is
perhaps supported by the phrasing, which is that of a melody. But Ex. 96c could never
have failed to make the impression of a melody, although there is only a single symp-
tom—singableness. All the other symptoms are missing—no section or phrase
is
repeated; there
is no distinct motive or motive-form; and the segments, m.
17-22,
25-27 and 29-30 develop a figure (which previously appeared in the viola, m. 13) in
a manner which is usual in a theme rather than a melody.
Exs. 97, 98, 99 and 100 show the tonal contour of a number of melodies. It was
mentioned previously that melodies proceed
in waves, a fact which can readily be
observed here. The amplitude of these waves varies. A melody seldom moves long in
one direction. Though the student was advised to avoid repeating the culmination
point, the climax, the graphs show that many a good melody does so. The student had
better not attempt it.
In
the
music of our
predecessors, somewhat modified
instrumental melodies
(especially in operas and oratorios) were often used also for the singers. In those days
the difference between vocal and instrumental melodies was not very great.
It
is


===== PDF PAGE 63 =====
104
CONSTRUCTION OF THEMES
greater today, partly because the ability of the singers has not developed as much as
the technique of instrumentalists. Worse, the mental capacity of singers to deal with
a more modern kind of melodic line is utterly inadequate to the requirements. Perhaps
at no time has the gap between creation and performance been more discouraging,
the difference between those who call themselves ‘artists' and those others who have
proved to be creators.
The melody is certainly a simpler formulation than the theme. Condensation does
not admit a too detailed elaboration; concentration of the content
in a single line
excludes presentation of remote consequences. Nevertheless, this formulation permits
much more than the expression of popular ideas and commonplace feelings in a super-
ficial manner. Aesthetically, as well as for sound reasons of economy, there
is no
nobler contrast than to speak lightly of a great grief.
Aus meinert grossen Schmerzen
Mach ich die kleinen Lieder.
.
.
.
(Heine, Buch der Lieder)
So heroes belittle their wounds and
their achievements—this
is the modesty of
great men.


===== PDF PAGE 69 =====
ADVICE FOR SELF-CRITICISM
XII
ADVICE FOR SELF-CRITICISM
The preceding discussion of melody and theme is chiefly aesthetic, rather than tech-
nical. Technical advice can be formulated more easily
in the negative than in the
positive. The sense of melody enables one who has it to do the right thing at once
without the intervention of self-criticism, but even a master may stray on to the wrong
track. When such a deviation occurs, one has to discover where and why one erred,
and which is the right track. And therefore, self-criticism
is necessary to a composer,
gifted or not.
The best tool of a musician is his ear. Therefore:
1. LISTEN1
Play or read harmony and melody separately several times. This sometimes pre-
vents self-deception. Perhaps only one of these factors is poor, its shortcomings hidden
behind
the
virtues of the
other.
If the harmonic progression
is
satisfactory
the
beginner may easily overlook shortcomings in his melody. A good melody should be
smooth, fluent and balanced when
it
is played without accompaniment.
2. ANALYSE
Be conscious of the significant features of the basic motive, and determine whether
they, or the less characteristic, are developed. There may be empty segments with no
real content, without significant melodic or rhythmic movement, even without har-
monic change.
3. ELIMINATE NON-ESSENTIALS
Too much variation, too much embellishment and figuration, excessively remote
motive-variations, too abrupt a change of register, may contribute to imbalance.
4. AVOID MONOTONY
Too many repetitions of tones or melodic figures are annoying,
if they do not
exploit the advantage of a repetition —emphasis. Watch especially the highest tone
or the melody. The climax normally appears toward the end, and can be repeated or
Every good musician must possess the 'inner ear’, auditory imagery, the capacity of hearing music
in
exceeded only with caution. Beware of too restricted a compass, and avoid moving
too long in one direction. Evaluate sensitively the endings of the phrases.
5. WATCH THE BASS LINE
The bass was previously described as a ‘second melody’. This means that it is sub-
ject to somewhat the same requirements as the principal melody. It should be rhyth-
mically balanced, should avoid the monotony of unnecessary repetitions, should have
some variety of contour, and should make full use of inversions (especially of seventh
chords). Chromatic progression can be as melodically advantageous in the bass as in
the principal melody. Semi- and quasi-counterpoint, such as can be seen in Exs. 44g,
i,j, 48a and 58g, help to make the bass interesting.
ILLUSTRATIONS OF SELF-CRITICISM
Ex.
105,
1 a small ternary form with a number of alternative contrasting middle
sections, can be used to show the application of some of these precepts.
In Ex. 105a the break in continuity at the end of the second phrase (m. 4) seems too
pronounced. The discontinuity
is intensified by the stepwise progression across the
bar line. The addition of a connective chord (small notes) maintains the melodic and
rhythmic flow and enhances the harmonic logic. Similarly, the half-note in the first
half of m. 8
is somewhat weak and empty. The small notes keep the melody alive to
the end of the phrase.
More generally, one might point out that the repeated notes in the first eight mea-
sures are somewhat overdone, as are the parallel thirds in the
last half. Of course,
these features are intended to demonstrate in easily recognizable form the use of
motival characteristics.
In Ex. 105c the chromatic return to V at the last moment is too crowded with rapid
harmonic change to balance the preceding sparse harmonization. Moreover,
it would
not connect well with m.
13 of Ex. 105a.
The active movement in Ex. 105/ is hardly adequate to disguise the rather static
harmony.
Ex. 105g, on the other hand,
is so
filled with remote and rapidly changing har-
monies that it fails to balance the preceding and following sections of Ex. 105a.
6. MAKE MANY SKETCHES
Change the method of variation frequently. Try each method several times. Join
the best sketches to produce others and improve them until the result is satisfactory.
To make sketches
is a humble and
unpretentious approach toward
perfection.
A beginner who
is not too
self-assured, who does not
believe
too firmly in
his
Exs. 101-7 after Chapter XIII, p. 126.


===== PDF PAGE 70 =====
118
CONSTRUCTION OF THEMES
‘infallibility’, and who knows that he has not yet reached technical maturity, will
consider everything he writes as tentative. Later he will be able to base his compos-
ing exclusively on his sense of form.
The student should frequently review the methods of motive variation. Methodical
variation is no substitute for invention, but
it may be stimulating, like the athlete’s
‘warm-up’.
7. WATCH THE HARMONY; WATCH THE ROOT PROGRESSIONS; WATCH THE
BASS LINE


===== PDF PAGE 71 =====
PART
II
SMALL FORMS
XIII
THE SMALL TERNARY FORM
(A-B-A1
)
An overwhelming proportion of musical forms
is structurally composed of three
parts. The third part is sometimes a true repetition (recapitulation) of the
first, but
oftener
it
is a more or less modified repetition. The second part
is organized as a
contrast.
This form may derive from the early ‘Rondeau’, in which interludes were inserted
between repetitions of a refrain. Repetition satisfies the desire to hear again what was
pleasing at
first hearing, and simultaneously aids comprehension. A contrast, how-
ever, is useful to avoid the possibility of monotony.
Sections producing contrasts of various types and degrees are to be found in a great
many forms:
e.g. Small Ternary Form (formerly called Three-Part Song Form);
larger ternary forms, such as Minuet or Scherzo; and Sonata or Symphony.
Contrast presupposes coherence. Incoherent contrast, though tolerated in ‘descrip-
tive’ music, is intolerable in a well organized form. Contrasting sections, therefore,
must
utilize the same processed by which motive-forms are connected
in simpler
formulations.
THE SMALL TERNARY FORM
The A-section of the a-b-a1 form may be a sentence or a period, ending on
I, V or
HI (iii) in major; on
i, III, V, or v in minor. The beginning, at least, should clearly
express the tonality, because of the contrast to follow.
The A‘-section, the recapitulation, ends on the tonic if it completes an independent
piece.
It
is seldom an unchanged repetition. The final cadence generally differs from
that of the first section, even if both lead to the same degree.


===== PDF PAGE 72 =====
120
SMALL FORMS
THE SMALL TERNARY FORM
121
THE CONTRASTING MIDDLE SECTION
The most effective factor in a contrasting section
is the harmony. The A-section
establishes a tonic; the B-section contraposes another region (one of the more closely
related). This provides both contrast and coherence.
Further coherence is furnished by the metre, and by using forms of the basic motive
which are not too remote from those of the A-section.
Further contrast can be achieved through the use of new variations of the basic
motive, or change in the order of previous motive-forms.
Illustrations from the literature: Beethoven , piano sonatas
The opening of the Adagio of Beethoven's Op. 2/1, m.
1-16, reveals a structure
from which a practice form can be abstracted. Its A-section, a period with a caesura
on V in m. 4, comprises eight measures. The A
J -section is condensed to four measures
(m.
13-16). The B-section
is the simplest possible model of an effective contrast.
It
comprises four measures, built from a two-measure phrase and a varied repetition of
it. This construction, two units, the second a more or less varied repetition of the
first, possesses an obvious natural logic. The mere interchange of V and
I in the B-sec-
tion
is a coherent contrast to the interchange of I and V at the beginning. The pedal
point on V, stationary in contrast to the moving bass of the A-section, suggests the
contraposition of the dominant region to the tonic region. Additional connecting
elements are the dotted rhythm of the upbeat, the frequent use of the suspension and
the increasing sixteenth notes.
Op. 2/2-IV (m. 1-16) is another illustration of the practice form. The contrasting
middle section is again on a pedal. The repetition of the two-measure unit
is a slight
variation.
In Op. 2/2-II (m.
1-19), the two-measure unit of the B-section (m. 9-12)
is only
slightly concealed by the imitation in the left hand. Otherwise, this case differs from
the others only in the length of the recapitulation.
.
In all three, and in many of the following, the B-section ends on V, as an ‘upbeat
chord’, and a small figure serves as a connective to the recapitulation.
In Op. 7-II the B-section and the Assertion are longer than in the practice form.
The length of the contrasting middle section
is six measures (m. 9-14). This pro-
longation arises from a double repetition of its opening phrase, m. 9-10. The omission
of one of the three units would reduce
it to the four measures of the practice form.
Curiously enough, any one of the three could equally well be omitted.
In the Rondo, Op. 2/2-IV, there is a second ternary form, the sections of which
again deviate in length from the practice form. The A-section is ten measures, from the
repeat mark in m. 57 to m. 66; the middle section is eight measures, m. 67-74. With
the exception of the cadence, the B-section consists of a series of imitations of a two-
measure unit, progressing along a circle of fourths.
The Rondo, Op. 7-1 V, begins with the dominant harmony; the B-section, m. 9, can
accordingly begin with the tonic. The contour of the A-section is essentially a descend-
ing scale line, which provokes ascending scale lines in the continuation.
The contrasting middle section of Op. 14/2-11 consists again of a two-measure unit
followed by a varied repetition. The relation to the A-section lies in the phrasing, while
the contrast is emphasized by the legato style.
In Op. 26-1 each section
is double the usual length, and the middle section is even
further extended.
It consists of a sequentially repeated two-measure unit (m. 17-18),
followed by a cadence. A deceptive progression (m. 24) produces the prolongation.
Op. 27/1 -III. The ‘con espressionc’ of the Adagio movement of this ‘Sonata Quasi
una Fantasia' is justified even by its construction. One might be inclined to question
the coherence of the syncopations in m. 13-16. The syncopations in m. 9 are obviously
a development of those in m. 6 and 7. But those in m. 13-16 present a special piano
style, a variant of the more usual form
in which the harmony, not the melody,
is
syncopated. This melodic outburst
is not solely the result of exuberance. A great
composer’s imagination
is not exhausted when he reaches the vicinity of a cadence.
On the contrary,
it often starts to bloom here, where lesser composers are happy to
have arrived at a point where they can end. Ex. 101 illustrates that there was no formal
necessity for the prolongation; a
slight change in measure
12 would have made
it
possible to eliminate m. 13-16 entirely.
Op. 28-11. The contrasting middle section comprises eight measures, dwelling on
the dominant.
It consists of a pedal point on V, above which each reappearance of
V is introduced by H. The section is prolonged by the progressively condensed repeti-
tion of measure 12, and an unaccompanied connective.
Op. 31/1— III. The middle section (m. 9-16) consists of the four measure-segment,
m. 9-12, which
is strictly repeated. Here the contrasting section starts with a pedal
point on the tonic, and ends also on the tonic. This somewhat unusual procedure
derives from the fact that the A-section (m. 1-8) and the recapitulation (m. 17-24)
stand upon dominant pedal
points. Thus the tonic offers
sufficient contrast. The
usual I-V relation between these two sections is reversed.
Illustrations from the literature: Haydn , Mozart , Schubert1
Haydn, Piano Sonata No. 35, Ex.
102a. The construction of the nine-measure
middle section (m. 9-17) is interesting in that
it consists of 2+4+2+ 1. The opening
two-measure phrase (m. 9-10) is repeated (m. 11), sequenced (m.
12), varied (m. 13)
and concluded with element ‘b’ (m.
14). The overlapping treatment produces a four-
1 Most of these examples were selected because they differ, in ail three sections, from the scheme of the


===== PDF PAGE 73 =====
122
SMALL FORMS
THE SMALL TERNARY FORM
123
measure unit of chain-like construction. The repetition of the last two measures of
it (m. 15-16) emphasizes its end. M. 17 is an added connective.
Ex.
102ft. The middle section begins (m.
11) with a stronger contrast than the
dominant, the flat mediant (bill)- According to the principle of multiple meaning it
is reinterpreted in m. 12 as III of the tonic minor, which then leads in m. 14 to the
common dominant of the tonic major and minor. The extension of the A-section and
the a ‘-section by the addition of m. 8 9 and m. 22-23 constitutes another difference
from the practice form.
Ex. 102c. The antecedent of the opening period (m. 1-12), becomes six measures
long through repetitions of the motive-form ‘b\ The alternative analysis, ‘c\ demon-
strates the overlapping, chain-like, construction. The recapitulation (m.
17-22)
is
reduced to six measures.
It uses chiefly the motive-form ‘b\ avoiding monotony by
reorganization and by omitting the motive-form 'a', which was the exclusive material
of the middle section.
1
Ex.
102d. The motival derivation of the rich ornamentation, which might seem
arbitrary at first glance, is analysed and traced back to a few basic forms.
Ex.
102c. The deceptive cadence in m. 8 of the A-section requires an added cadence
to the dominant, which extends the section to ten measures. The recapitulation, partly
(m. 23-24) a free reconstruction, becomes nine measures through the developing
repetition in m. 22. The contrasting middle section (m. 1 1-17) dwells on the dominant
of the tonic minor, partly as a pedal point. A mere interchange of harmonies (I-V;
K-V) leads repeatedly to the dominant. In in. 13-17 the bass is omitted, on the sup-
position that the mind retains the pedal point—perhaps because the upper three voices
express the harmony definitely enough. The extension to seven measures is the result
of the inserted measure 13 and the additions, m. 16 and 17.
Ex. 103, by Mozart, possesses the simplicity and impressiveness so necessary in a
theme for variations. It demonstrates that sufficient variety can be produced by means
as simple as shifting to other harmonies, changing the intervals and extending the
phrases to two measures. The elaboration through imitations, in the middle section,
creates an excellent contrast to the homophonic style of the rest.
Ex.
104, Schubert. The contrasting middle section
is noteworthy because
it turns
in m.
1 1 to the submediant region (vi) and ends on its V(W of the tonic region). This,
in turn, influences the curious harmony at the beginning of the recapitulation, m. 13
(see explanation in Exs. 104ft, c).
COMMENT ON EXAMPLES
Ex.
105 shows how ten
different continuations can be derived from a
single
A-section. Though these B-sections begin on various degrees (V,
i, v,
ii, iii, H4, IV, iv,
1 This example can also be analysed as a baroque binary slructure, in which the harmony moves from I lo
V in the first half and from V to I in the second ; the motive-forms arc similarly distributed in the two sections.
vi), all but one can be joined to the original A-section, ending on I. The basic phrase
is a derivative of Ex. 21 d.
Observe the various types of piano style and the treatment of the motive of the
accompaniment (indicated by m, n, o, p). The features of the basic motive appearing
in the A-section (marked a, b, c, d) are used subsequently, and combined with those
of the motive of the accompaniment as logical connectives.
The upbeat chord at the end of all these B-sections is V, sometimes postponed to the
last eighth or sixteenth.
In middle sections
1, 3, 7, 8 and 9 the minor tonic and minor subdominant are
effectively contrasted with the ensuing return of the major in the recapitulation.
The harmonic procedure is sufficiently analysed in the examples themselves. The
student should exploit, in like manner, all degrees, in order to expand his harmonic
knowledge, even at the risk of overburdening so small a form. By this means, he can
develop his harmonic resources and skill to meet the demands of larger and more
complex forms.
THE UPBEAT CHORD
The B-section ends on a harmony which leads to the recapitulation. In classical
music this harmony is the dominant, because
it reintroduces the tonic in
its tonality-
defining sense. Its effect in such cases is comparable to that of an upbeat to the sub-
sequently accentuated downbeat. Because of this function, such chords will be called
‘upbeat chords’, regardless of their rhythmic placement.
Other harmonies, and transformations of them, can also function as connectives.
Ex. 106 shows examples of ii and
iii (and their derivatives) used as upbeat harmonies
to
I. In Exs. 107a,
ft and c, the recapitulation does not begin on
I. In such cases the
upbeat chord must be chosen accordingly. In Ex.
107ft the upbeat harmony is bill,
introducing the recapitulation which begins on V. In Ex.
107a the recapitulation
begins on
ft, introduced by [>VI. Of course,
if the
first two harmonies of the
re-
capitulation were reversed, the [?V1 could as logically introduce I (Ex. 107c).
THE RECAPITULATION (A
1
)
The recapitulation may be an unchanged repetition. More frequently it is changed,
modified or varied. Changes may be necessary to establish a definite ending, especially
if the A-section ends on a degree other than
I. Shortening (by elimination, reduction
or condensation) may help to avoid monotony. Lengthening (by insertion, inter-
polated repetitions, extension or addition) may create emphasis.
Modification of both melody and harmony may be necessary to accommodate such
changes.
The principles of variation can be applied to ail the elements of the A-section, but
with moderation, so as not to conceal the presence of a repetition. Thus, the contour
I
1


===== PDF PAGE 74 =====
124
SMALL FORMS
THE SMALL TERNARY FORM
125
of the melody should not be entirely changed, except at points where essential struc-
tural changes occur. Ornamental variation—breaking down longer notes through the
use of passing notes, circumscribing notes, tone repetitions, etc.—need not change the
contour essentially. Excessive rhythmic changes or shifts of accent are likely to prevent
recognition.
Variation of the harmony will consist largely of insertions and substitutions. The
accompaniment may be varied by making changes in the figuration, though such
changes should be
less far-reaching than
in the melody. Further variation can be
produced by contrapuntal or semi-contrapuntal methods:
imitation, addition of a
counter melody or the melodic elaboration of subordinate voices.
A changed cadence may require considerable reformulation, or even complete
reconstruction.
In a small form, alterations should be used with discretion, maintaining a balance
with preceding sections.
Illustrations from the literature
Beethoven, Op. 2/1— II. The recapitulation of the
initial ternary form
is reduced
to four measures. Only the first measure (m. 13) is preserved, an octave higher. M. 14
turns at once to IV, in preparation for the cadence. Connected by the rhythm of the
upbeat to m.
1, which was omitted in approaching m.
13, m. 15
is a figuration of a
descending contour resembling m. 3 and 7.
Op.
2/2—II. The seven-measure
recapitulation
(m.
13-19) combines
reduction
(omitting m. 3-5) and extension (by adding sequentially m.
15-16). M.
17
is an
ascending reformulation of m. 6, through which the repetition of m. 7-8 (in m. 18-19)
occurs climactically an octave higher. The sequences and the ascending contour of
this reconstruction lend emphasis to the upper voice, which was previously some-
what obscured by the competing bass voice.
Op. 2/2-1V. The recapitulation of the first ternary form (m. 1-16)
is reduced to
four measures (m.
13-16) by melodic and harmonic condensations. In the second
ternary form (m. 57-79), the recapitulation
is reduced to five measures (m. 75-79),
with a slight melodic variation.
Op.
7-11. The recapitulation
(m.
15-24)
is extended
to
ten measures. This
is
achieved by sequences and other repetitions, condensations and the deceptive cadence
in m. 20, which requires a second, enriched cadence.
Op. 7-1V. The recapitulation (m. 13-16) repeats only the second half of the period,
slightly varying the piano style by the addition of octaves.
Op.
14/2-11. The recapitulation
is reduced to four measures (m. 13-16), followed
' by a codetta-like addition in the form of an enriched cadence.
Op. 26-1. The recapitulation (m. 27-34) repeats only the second half (m. 9-16) of
the sixteen-measure period.
Op. 27/1, Adagio. The recapitulation (m. 17-24) repeats the entire A-section, with
minor elaborations of the piano
style, and a cadence changed to lead to the tonic.
Op. 28-11. The recapitulation (m. 17-22) omits m. 3-5, and condenses m. 6-8 into
two measures (m. 21-22), converting the cadence to lead to the tonic. This reduction
is balanced by the insertion of two semi-sequential repetitions of m.
18.
Op. 31/1— III. The recapitulation (m. 17-24) is noteworthy because the main melody
is transferred to the tenor voice, while a quasi-melodically elaborated accompaniment
is added in the right hand.
1
Ex. 1026. The recapitulation (m. 15-24) omits the first four measures of the A-sec-
tion. This reduction is again balanced by extending the content of the second half of
this period to ten measures. This extension is produced by repetition of m. 17, followed
by a dramatic pause, thus adding two measures. After this interruption the cadential
measures follow, introduced by derivatives of the preceding figure. The
last three
measures are a mere transposition of m. 8-10 to the tonic.
Ex. 102c. Discussion of the recapitulation appears on p. 122.
Ex.
\01d. In m. 13-17 of the recapitulation only the embellishments arc varied.
The cadence, m.
18-20, replacing the half-cadence to V with a full cadence to
I,
naturally requires more change.
Ex. 102c. The recapitulation was discussed on p. 122.
Ex. 104. The beginning of the recapitulation (m. 13) surprisingly makes use of the
augmented 6/5 chord (on H) of the submediant region. Here
it is treated as if it were
a dominant seventh chord on IV, resolving to a diminished seventh chord derived
from V. In view of the preceding cadence to the dominant of vi,
it should probably
be understood as in Exs. 1046 and c.
The possibility that the recapitulation might begin on a different degree than the
beginning was mentioned on
p.
123, and
is
illustrated
in
Exs.
107a, 6 and
c,
in
which the recapitulations begin, respectively, on H, V, and
1 6/4. Such cases are com-
paratively rare in the small ternary form.
1 Such a voice is often miscalled a ‘counterpoint'. Real counterpoint is based on invertible combinations;
but
in homophonic music one more often finds the semi-contrapuntal technique of providing counter-
melodies, repetition of imitative figures,
etc., which vary the accompaniment to the main voice. A very
enlightening instance
is Beethoven's String Quartet, Op.
18/6, Adagio.


===== PDF PAGE 75 =====


===== PDF PAGE 80 =====
XIV
UNEVEN, IRREGULAR AND
ASYMMETRICAL CONSTRUCTION
Many of the previous illustrations from the literature demonstrate that a sentence
or period may consist of an uneven number of measures. Their construction, accor-
dingly, may be asymmetrical or irregular. The uneven number of measures may be
caused by the length of basic units (motives or phrases), the number of such units,
or the combination of units of differing lengths.
There are asymmetrical periods which are divided in unequal parts, for instance
4+6 (Exs. 45a, 47a, 59b,
c,
/;). There are also symmetrical periods whose smaller
segments are not divisible by four, e.g. 3+3 (Ex. 51c); 5+5 (Ex. 44a;
1 14); or 6+6
(Ex. 102c). Ex. 46c (5 + 7) is an asymmetrical period made up of uneven segments, but
like all the preceding illustrations comprises an even number of measures.
Sentences are more frequently composed of elements of differing lengths than
periods, even if the total number of measures is even. Ex. 57 is 4+5; Ex. 61c is also
4 (2+2)+5 (1 + 1 + 1+2). Ex. 61c/ is 5+4. Ex. 59/ is made up of five units totalling
seven measures (1 +2+ 1 + 1 +2).
In many cases the construction is complicated by the inclusion of internal repeti-
tions, sequential or varied (Exs. 57, 59d. It, 60//, 61c); by stretching as in Exs. 44/ and
47a, where a cadence that normally would occupy two measures is extended to three;
or by additions after the cadence (Exs. 59c, 60n). In Ex. 59a, from the standpoint of
melodic construction, there could be a cadence ending in m. 8, or, following the caden-
tial harmonics of m. 9, a close in m. 10 or
11. But all these earlier opportunities are
ingeniously evaded, thus extending the sentence to
thirteen measures.
Ex. 60/
is
constructed by internal repetitions of elements of differing lengths: 3(2+l)+ 3(2+l)
+4(2+2)+2+2.
The extraordinary Brahms example. Ex. 51c, is a period of six measures. The ante-
cedent and consequent (three measures long) each combine one 3/4 and two 2/4
measures. Nevertheless
it is symmetrical and regular.
There exist forms which are built exclusively from phrases of an uneven
length.
For instance, the opening theme of the last movement of Brahms's Piano Quartet in
e-minor is an a-b-a* form and consists of ten three-measure phrases. A phrase like
these, consisting of six quarter-notes, may be understood as resembling one measure
of 3/2, which demonstrates its naturalness (Ex. 1086). The same explanation applies


===== PDF PAGE 81 =====
138
SMALL FORMS
to Ex. 108a, from Beethoven’s Harp Quartet, Op. 74 (si ha s'imaginar la baltuta di 6/8),
and to Ex. 109 from the Scherzo of his Ninth Symphony (ritmo di Ire ballule). The
ritmo di Ire ballule, instead of connecting two units (2+1 or
1 +2), reduces the four
measures of the ritmo di quairo ballule to three (Ex.
1 10).
Irregular construction becomes more frequent in the second half of the nineteenth
century. Brahms and Mahler, under the influence of folk music, developed a feeling
that often led to free rhythmic organization which does not correspond to the bar
lines (Ex.
1
1 la, b). In extreme cases frequent changes of metre have been used to bring
about a degree of correspondence between phrase structure and bar lines (Ex.
1 12).
Thus
it becomes evident that master composers freely introduce irregular or non-
symmetrical procedures as demanded by the musical idea or the structure. Often such
procedures contribute fluency and spontaneity. But they are neither arbitrary nor
casual. On the contrary, a high degree of skill and sensitivity are necessary to achieve
the necessary balance and proportion.


===== PDF PAGE 82 =====
XV
THE MINUET
Minuet, scherzo, Ihcme and variation,
etc., appear as independent pieces, or as
middle movements in cyclic forms such as the suite, symphony or sonata.
The only specific rhythmic feature of a minuet
is the metre, 3/4 (or, rarely,
3/8).
Striking rhythms, like those in scherzos or more modern dances, are seldom found.
Beethoven marks the Minuet of the First Symphony,
—
108, and that of the Eighth
Symphony, J —
126. Both tempi are extreme, even for Beethoven. Most of his other
minuets, and those of Mozart and Haydn, average about J.
60-70, though some
are as slow as
J. =
40-50. Accordingly, more small note values (eighths and six-
teenths) appear in the minuet, and the harmony changes more frequently than in the
scherzo. In other dance forms, the harmony often remains unchanged fora number of
measures; in the minuet the harmony seldom lasts longer than one or two measures,
and often there are two or more harmonies within a measure.
The character of a minuet may range from
the
unpretentiously singable
(e.g.
Beethoven, Op. 31/3—III) to the stubbornly insistent (Mozart, Symphony No. 40 in
..'-minor); but in general the character, like the tempo, is moderate.
As the minuet was the favoured dance of the courts in the eighteenth century,
it
did not call for so much accentuation of the rhythm as did the more popular dances.
Accordingly, the conventional accompaniments
(cf. Ex.
65) were probably
never
much used.
If some vestiges of them appear, they are generally stylized.
THE FORM
The minuet is an a-b-a' form, quite similar to the small ternary form. A practice
form derived from
it need not deviate from this a-b-a
1
. However, the fact that the
u-scction must, because of the customary repetition marks (|
: a :
I
: b a 1
: ||), follow first
the A-section and then the A'-section, has to be taken into consideration. Ex.
1 13, by
Bach,
is an
illustration of the simple minuet, and corresponds quite closely to the
practice form.
Many minuets in the literature differ from the practice form. There are structural
deviations
in
all the three parts: unequal length of phrases; sequential or other
internal
repetitions;
extensions
(often
provoked
by
deceptive
progressions);
or
codettas added to the A-section and its recapitulation. Mozart and Haydn, especially,
often insert episodes; and even co-ordinate ideas appear, sometimes only rudimen-
tary, but occasionally quite independent and firmly established.


===== PDF PAGE 83 =====
142
SMALL FORMS
The recapitulation
is seldom shortened, and seldom reveals far-reaching changes
of the melodic contour.
It is usually linked with the B-section by an upbeat chord.
This upbeat chord (dominant,
artificial dominant, etc.)
is frequently reinforced by
dwelling upon
it, often over a pedal point. Sometimes a small connective
is added.
Illustrationsfrom the literature
Haydn and Mozart built many themes of minuets of an uneven number of measures.
In Ex.
1 14 the A-scction is a period of ten measures (5+5). In the recapitulation
it
is
repeated without change, and a ten-measure added section (codetta)
is
built from
a one-measure rest and nine measures of content.
Haydn, String Quartet, Op. 76/2-II1 (Ex.
115). The A-section of the Minuet con-
sists of 5+6 measures, but it might also be analysed as 4
| 4+3. This ambiguity is due
to the canonic imitation, which shifts the ending of the
first segment to
the
fifth
measure.
Although many movements in the classic literature combine the homophonic and
the contrapuntal technique,
there
is a fundamental difference between them. The
homophonic-melodic treatment depends basically on development of a motive by
variation. In contrast, the contrapuntal treatment does not vary the motive, but dis-
plays the possibilities of combination inherent in the basic theme or themes.
The Minuet in Mozart’s String Quartet in A
, K.V. 464 (Ex.
1 16), is a rare example
of the real fusion of the two techniques. The three motives, a, b and c, can ail be con-
sidered circumscriptions of a fourth (see Ex. 117). The two principal subjects, a and b,
admit canonic imitations and inversions; they even appear simultaneously with their
inversions. Their combination appears in prime, octave and lower sixth. In measure
59-60 the combination is inverted in the upper seventh, and b accompanies a in canonic
imitation. In the contrasting middle section a sequence of b is accompanied by the
interval of a fourth, which (Ex. 117) can be derived from both a and b by reduction.
Beside the display of contrapuntal values, one finds also the usual variation of basic
motives (m. 22-24); and there is even a codetta (m. 25-28).
Beethoven, Op. 2/1—III. The rather distantly related motive form in m.
1 1-12, and
its repetition (m.
1 3- 1 4) may be considered the consequence ofmany repetitions within
the A-scction. The sequential modulation in the contrasting middle section leads to
the subdominant with the previously mentioned motive-form (m. 20). In m. 23 and
24 it is reduced (liquidated) to three notes, which are then reassembled in a chain of
eighth notes moving to the dominant. The A'-section
is a reformulation, omitting
entirely the content of m. 3-4.
Op. 10/3—III. The contrasting middle section
is built from a two-measure phrase
(m. 17-18) which
is a remote derivation from the A-scction (see Ex.
118).
It makes
four appearances, moving in a circle of fifths (iii-vi-H-V). The structural reformula-
tion of the A'-section does not involve the antecedent, which
is merely a ‘reinstru-
THE MINUET
143
mentation’ (m. 25-32). The consequent is lengthened by the insertion of a climactic
sequence introducing the cadential subdominant;
its ending (m. 43) is approached
through a number of passing harmonies. Several codettas conclude the Minuet.
Op. 22-111. The trill-like segment (m. 9, 13) of the contrasting middle section can
be derived from the first three eighth-notes in the left hand of m. 2, under the influence
of the sixteenth-notes throughout the A-section. The phrase, m. 11-12, derives from the
beginning phrase, from which all of the A-section is derived (Ex.
1 19). The recapitula-
tion, substantially unvaried, is concluded by several codettas.
The contrasting middle sections of these three, and many other, minuets resemble
the elaboration (development, Durchfiihrung ) to be discussed under the Scherzo. In
these, and in some movements not specifically called Minuets (Op. 7
111, Op. 27/2
II), the chief characteristic
is the sequential modulation. The end of the section
is
often marked by dwelling on the dominant over a pedal point. The pedal point
is a
retarding device.
It should be employed where the harmony must be prevented from
too rapid or too distant development. Usually the sustained note is in the bass, and
the upper voices carry out a progression from V to V.
For the recapitulation (A'-section), the same principles discussed in the chapter on
the Small Ternary Form apply. Since Mozart,
it has become almost a point d'honnew
not to use an unvaried repetition, but io reformulate and reconstruct. Such a case
is the Minuet from Mozart's String Quartet
in A. K.V. 464, quoted
in Ex.
116.
The preservation of the rhythmic features
is so strong a motive relation
that
it
allows far-reaching variations of the intervals and the contour without producing
incoherence. In Ex. 116 the recapitulation
is quite obvious (m. 55) in spite of such
melodic reconstruction.
THE TRIO
Most of the dance forms are followed by a trio, and
it
is usual after the trio to
repeat the original dance. As a matter of fact, the trio
is nothing else than a second
minuet (march, waltz, scherzo; or—as in the suites of Bach—a second couranle,
bouree or gavotte).
It is evident that this trio has to constitute a contrast. One assumes that there should
also be some thematic connexion.
In former times the trio was either in the same
tonality, or in the relation maggiore-minore (tonic major—tonic minor), or vice versa.
Later the contrast between relative major and minor was also used, as well as between
other pairs of related keys.
The contrast in character might be, e.g. lyrical— rhythmical; melodious—contra-
puntal;
melodious—etude-like; grazioso—energico;
dolce—vivace;
melancholy
gay; et cetera and vice versa.
Concerning the form, there may appear as many deviations in the trio as in the
minuet itself: reductions, extensions, additional ideas, codettas, etc.


===== PDF PAGE 84 =====


===== PDF PAGE 87 =====
THE SCHERZO
XVI
THE SCHERZO
Scherzo, according to Webster, means a ‘playful, humorous movement, commonly
in 3/4 measure, which, since Beethoven, usually takes the place of the old minuet
in
a sonata or symphony’. This is only partly correct. For instance, Beethoven’s Septet,
Op. 20, symphonic in
its first and
last movements, contains both a Minuet and a
Scherzo.
Any attempt to define the structure of the scherzo strictly will meet similar prob-
lems. Beethoven seldom uses the
title. Scherzo,
if the movement,
like that of the
String Trio, Op. 9/3,
is in minor. To this degree
it
is true that his scherzos may be
called playful, humorous, gay. But among eight scherzos from Brahms's chamber
music,
five are
in minor. Beethoven calls ‘Scherzo’ only two of the rapid middle
movements of his symphonies. Many such movements in his sonatas and string quar-
tets are only labelled Allegro, Vivace, Presto, etc., probably because of deviations in
character, form, mode, rhythm, tempo or metre, from the strict concept that he had
in mind. Among these movements can be found some in minor and some in metres
other than 3/4, e.g. 3/8, 6/8, 6/4, 2/2, 4/4, 2/4, etc. The structure of the B-section also
varies considerably. Schubert’s scherzos are mostly in triple metre, but often in minor.
In Brahms, Schumann and Mendelssohn one finds many different metres.
With regard to character and mood, the restriction to the playful and humorous is
not factual. Even the tempo is not decisive. Beethoven’s own metronome indications
for rapid middle movements range around J. — 100, which
is his average scherzo
tempo. However, these middle movements, with only the rapid tempo in common,
differ very widely in expressive qualities.
A survey of scherzos and other rapid middle movements of Beethoven, Schubert,
Mendelssohn, Schumann, Chopin, Brahms, Tchaikovsky, Berlioz, Bruckner, Mahler,
Reger, Debussy, Ravel, etc., reveals such characters as: vivacious, sparkling, brilliant,
witty, enthusiastic, ecstatic, ardent, fiery, energetic, vehement, impassioned, dramatic,
tragic, heroic, gigantesque, diabolical, grotesque.
The
scherzo
is
distinctly an
instrumental
piece,
characterized by
rhythmical
accentuations, and rapid tempo. The tempo prevents frequent change of the har-
monies and remote variation of motive-forms.
With regard to structure, scherzos of the masters have only one thing in common:
they are ternary forms. They differ from smaller ternary forms and the minuet in
that the middle section
is more modulatory and more thematic. In some cases, there
is a
special
type of modulatory contrasting middle section which approaches
the
elaboration (Durclfiihrung)* of the Sonata Allegro.
THE A-SECTtON
In principle, the A-section does not differ from the A-sections which were previously
discussed. Often the theme is double the usual number of measures on account of the
rapid tempo. For example, the Scherzos of Op. 2/2, Op. 2/3, Op. 28, and the Second
Symphony (Ex. 120c) begin with periods. The Scherzos of the Violin Sonata, Op. 30/2
(Ex.
120a), the String Quartet, Op. 18/1 (Ex. 120h). and the Eroica Symphony (Ex.
1 2 la) begin with sentences.
The character of the last of these has had great influence as the model for many
subsequent scherzos. Structurally (as the analysis in Ex. 121 d shows) it is a circum-
scription of the ascending tonic and the descending dominant (Exs.
12l/>,
c). This
skeleton is clothed with auxiliaries and passing notes. The relation between this theme
and those of the first and fourth movements (Exs.
1 2I</, e) is strong evidence in favour
of the concept of ‘monothematicism’ in a cyclic work.
THE MODULATORY CONTRASTING MIDDLE SECTION
The main function of the B-section
is to provide contrast.
It
is generally held that
the B-section of a scherzo should be an elaboration (Durch/iihrung). But in fact it often
resembles the
B-section of the minuet, while many minuets possess a modulatory
contrast.
The A-section, over relatively stable harmony, exposes its motive-forms in various
aspects. In the modulatory middle section, changes of shape and even of constitution
occur as this same material passes through fluctuating, unstable harmonic situations.
This freedom of structure and motive treatment does not imply that regularity, logic
and balance can be ignored.
Again,
it is advisable to become acquainted with this new type of contrast through
a practice form, which, like all abstractions, differs from reality, and replaces freedom
with guiding restrictions.
THE PRACTICE FORM
The modulation must be organized to promote intelligibility. Therefore,
it should
proceed, not in one great leap, but gradually, according to a plan which provides for
1 The terms 'elaboration' and Durcli/iihrung are used interchangeably throughout this book to refer to the
this technique. Schoenberg rejected the more usual term on the grounds that little development (in (he sense
or growth, maturation, evolution) takes place in the material used. Motive-forms are adapted, varied, ex-
panded. condensed, recombined and carried through various keys or regions; but they seldom grow or
evolve into a 'more mature or advanced state" (Ed.).


===== PDF PAGE 88 =====
152
SMALL FORMS
returning to the tonic. It is also advisable to provide for repetitions of clearly delimited
segments, reasonable in length.
Harmonically, these segments should be built as patterns for sequences. Themati-
cally, they should possess a certain degree of independence; the combination of
motive-forms may resemble that in the antecedent of the period, or the middle section
of the ternary form. But motive-forms from the A-section will have to be modified or
adapted to the modulatory procedure. The order may be changed, and some of the
forms may be repeated within the segment (e.g. abac, abcc, ahbc, aaab, etc.). Because
of the modulation, remotely varied motive-forms are dangerous.
In the practice form the pattern
is followed by a sequence.
It should begin on a
degree related to the ending of the A-section. In Ex. 122 there are twenty-five illustra-
tions of patterns with sequences, all derived from the A-section shown. They begin
on various degrees, such as V,
v, IH,
1,
iii, bill,
ii, iv, VI, etc. The patterns of Exs.
1226, c and
il begin alike but continue differently.
In a number of cases different
sequences are given for the same pattern. Variation of the sequence is illustrated in
Exs.
1 22c, s, t,
it,
v, x and
r. Particularly noteworthy arc those in which the principal
voice shifts to a different voice, sometimes using the opportunities of double counter-
point.
In order to control the modulation, the pattern must be built so that the end of the
last sequence offers an opening for the return to an appropriate upbeat harmony,
preparing for the recapitulation. For instance, the sixteenth measure of Exs.
1 22/ and
w are too remote to be neutralized through simple procedures.
The emphasis contributed by a sequence (a form of repetition) creates obligations.
It is necessary to neutralize these obligations in order to introduce the recapitulation
in a manner at once ‘surprising and expected', as Beethoven expressed it.
This
is accomplished by the technique of liquidation,
i.e. by gradually depriving
the
motive-forms of
their
characteristic
features and
dissolving them
into
un-
characteristic forms, such as scales, broken chords, etc. A striking example
is the
Scherzo of Beethoven’s Op. 26. After the sequence, the four-measure pattern
is re-
duced to two (m. 25-26); after a varied repetition, it is further reduced to five notes
(m. 28); to four notes (m. 29-30); to two notes (m. 33 ff.); and to one note (m. 41
ff.).
Observe that the upbeat harmony
is reached at the beginning of the first reduction
(m. 25) and continued through m. 44.
If, in the practice form, the end of the sequence does not connect readily with the
upbeat harmony, further modulation is necessary. This can be accomplished through
additional sequences, but in order to start the liquidation, the pattern should be
reduced, ordinarily to half of the previous length.
In Ex.
1 22 various techniques ofcontinuation after the first sequence are illustrated.
In Ex. 122« the reduced pattern is made simply by omitting the third and fourth mea-
sures of the original pattern. The contour of the pattern (m. 9-12) has been depreciated
THE SCHERZO
153
into the inconspicuous form of a descending scale line. Such unpretentious forms as
scale lines, broken chords, and the like, are neutral enough to cancel the emphasis of
the sequential process. M. 25-29 dwell on the dominant, with an ostinato-like treat-
ment of residues.
The brackets in m. 21
ff. of Exs.
1226, c and d indicate the reduction of the pre-
ceding two-measure pattern to two notes.
The end of the liquidation
is generally marked by a combination of repose and
suspense: repose through cessation of the modulatory movement; suspense in anti-
cipation of the re-entrance of the theme. At this point, the retarding effect of a pedal
point is appropriate; it keeps at least the bass from progressing. As an inverted pedal,
it can also be a sustained or repeated note in another voice. The pedal can be de-
veloped into a pedal figure (in Ex. 122/, m. 20-22, all three upper voices participate in
such an ostinato-like formulation). In Ex.
I22r/, m. 17-21, part of the modulation
is
carried out similarly.
Illustrations from the literature
Most of the scherzos and scherzo-like movements in classic music have in common
only one feature, that the modulation is carried out at least in part by sequential treat-
ment. The following arc
particularly worth study: Beethoven
Piano sonatas. Op.
2/2, Op. 2/3, Op. 26, Op. 28 ; Septet, Op. 20; Symphonies
I, 2, 4, 7, 9; String Quartets,
Op. 18/1, Op. 18/2, Op. 18/6; Brahms: Sextets, Op.
18, Op. 36.
In some cases, the modulation
is interrupted by an episode which settles down for
a time, often at a point harmonically remote (e.g. Op. 2/2, Symphony II). A remodu-
lation follows, using residues or other derivatives.
As soon as the upbeat harmony is reached, further modulation or remodulation
becomes unnecessary, as in Op. 26, where the shortened segment already stands on
the upbeat harmony.
Op. 28, Scherzo. The contrasting middle section does not contain a real modula-
tion, but merely passes through a number of harmonics with the aid of artificial
dominants. Even the upbeat chord
is introduced in an unusual manner and
in the
imperfect form of a 6/5 chord. The adequacy of this contrast is based on the harmonic
peculiarities of the other sections and the trio. The ambiguity of the opening/# (most
strongly
felt after the 6 minor of the trio) requires a clear definition of the tonic, D.
After
several more or
less contradictory
deviations, the
tonality becomes
firmly
established only at the end of the recapitulation, with the aid of several codettas.
Motivally, the construction of this middle section depends on the sustained D, E
,
F%, G in the upper voice, each four measures long, like the initial Ft-: and the octave
leaps in the bass. Below these sustained notes, the bass, accompanied by upper thirds,
proceeds chromatically from F% to C#. The regularity of this procedure makes a
motive-like impression.


===== PDF PAGE 89 =====
SMALL FORMS
THE SCHERZO
155
Symphony No.
1
III, Menuctto. Although this movement is called a minuet, the
contrasting middle section, in its sequentiation and gradual liquidation, resembles the
practice form of the scherzo middle section. In contrast, the Scherzo of Symphony
No. 2 has little elaboration of this type.
Symphony No. 3, Scherzo. The first ten measures of the Durch/uhrung utilize the
motive-forms of m. 1-4 in a chromatic ascension to reach the supertonic. Here the
second element of the theme (m. 7-14) is quoted. The last four measures (m. 95-98)
are split off and sequenced, modulating to V of the mediant, which, curiously,
is
dwelt upon for sixteen measures, as if it were the upbeat chord. Four measures of B'y,
representing the dominant, substitute for an upbeat chord.
Symphony No. 4
III. The modulation
is carried out by means of many sequences
of a four-measure pattern, which
is liquidated by reduction to two measures, one
measure and finally to two-thirds of a measure.
Symphony No. 7—III. This movement is scherzo-like in character, tempo and Durch-
fiihrung. The modulation follows the circle of fifths from mediant major to sub-
dominant. At this point one of those ‘recapitulations in the wrong key’ occurs which
appear occasionally in Beethoven's later works.
String Quartet, Op.
18/1, Scherzo. A three-measure pattern (in
flat mediant)
is
sequenced in tonic minor. A two-measure pattern (m. 17) followed by three sequences
leads to the dominant.
String Quartet, Op.
1 8/2, Scherzo. The contrast is chiefly harmonic, without elabora-
tion of the basic motive.
String Quartet, Op. 18/6, Scherzo. The contrasting section remains substantially
in the tonic region, but somewhat elaborates the basic motive.
Brahms, Sextet, Op. 18, Scherzo. Here the contrast is not produced by sequences,
but by fluently passing through tonic minor and flat submediant major regions. The
elaboration
is carried out exclusively with imitations of the leading motive.
Brahms, Sextet, Op.
36, Scherzo. The elaboration
is organized
in imitative
se-
quences, distributed as a dialogue between upper and lower voices.
These illustrations show the inexhaustible diversity of construction. They also show
that there is such a wide latitude for the fantasy of the composer that only a trained
mind can control it. Hence, composition in the practice form must be supplemented
with analysis of master works.
THE RECAPITULATION
Disregarding literal repetition, the recapitulation may be changed, modified, varied
or reconstructed as described on p. 123.
Op. 2/3, Scherzo. The recapitulation is modified so that both antecedent and con-
sequent end on the tonic.
Op. 26, Scherzo. The recapitulation is enriched by the addition of a counter melody
in the right hand; the principal melody
is lowered an octave, appearing in the left
hand. The written-out repetition, which was varied in the A-section, by the addition
of passing notes,
is varied in the recapitulation by interchange of the voices (m. 53-
60), as in double counterpoint.
The A
l-section of many scherzos differs from the A-section in including extensions
of the recapitulation, episodes and added codettas.
EXTENSIONS, EPISODES AND CODETTAS
Extension
is usually produced by repetition (often sequential) of an
element.
In
simple cases
it
is associated with a turn toward the subdominant (e.g. Beethoven,
Symphony No.
1
III); in others a real modulation occurs. Motivally, if it
is not the
simple
repetition of a segment (as in the Septet, Op.
20),
it usually consists of a
developing elaboration of preceding motive-forms.
Episodes interrupt the normal flow of a section. They dwell upon such progressions
as neither modulate nor produce a cadence. They often settle down in a more or less
remote contrasting region, especially if within a modulatory section. They often intro-
duce small phrases, strangely foreign to the previously used motive-forms (e.g. Op.
2/2-111, m. 19
IT., discussed below).
Codettas are primarily cadences. They serve as reaffirmations of the ending of a
section. Harmonically, they may consist of the most rudimentary cadence, V-l ; or
they may be highly complex. Motivally, they may range from simple repetitions of
small elements to rather independent formulations. 1
Further illustrations from the literature
Op.
2/2, Scherzo. An episode which
is both motivally and harmonically remote
begins in m. 19. It is connected with the basic material merely by its upbeat, which is
related to the tone repetitions of m. 3. The remoteness of the region makes a relatively
long and rapid remodulation necessary. A simple codetta at the end provides the full
cadence which was missing in the recapitulation proper.
Op. 2/3, Scherzo. The codettas (m. 56-64) hint at the subdominant minor, and
become plagal in the liquidated form, m. 61.
Op. 26, Scherzo. The recapitulation is extended with two slightly varied repetitions
of the last two-measure phrase (m. 59-60), and brought to a close with liquidating
reductions.
String Quartet. Op.
18/1,
Scherzo. The A’-section
consists of an extended
re-
capitulation (the extension
is in m. 43-46), followed by an episode (m. 51-63) built
from the element which appears in m. 49-50. The first five measures of the recapitula-
1
Usually,
if more than one codetta appears, the later ones are shortened, often
in the manner of a


===== PDF PAGE 90 =====
SMALL FORMS
THE SCHERZO
157
tion are again repeated (m. 64-68) and then liquidated into scale lines (m. 70-78).
A codetta, repeated and liquidated, concludes the movement.
String Quartet, Op. 18/2, Scherzo. The A'-section contains an extended recapitula-
tion. An enriched cadence starts in m. 22, within which, paradoxically, the end (m.
27-30), looks like a transposition of the beginning. There follows a codetta of four
measures, motivally remote, which is repeated, interchanging the position of the parts
as in multiple counterpoint. A smaller codetta (m. 38-39), repeated and liquidated,
brings the movement to an end.
String Quartet, Op.
18/6, Scherzo. A codetta begins in m.
30, featuring closely
related motive-forms. After frequent repetitions, the rhythm
is condensed to equal
eighth-notes
in m.
39, which are
finally
liquidated
into
scale
lines and
broken
chords.
String Quartet, Op. 59/2, Allegretto. In m. 17 the harmony settles down
in a way
that suggests the beginning of an episode, although
it can also be interpreted as a kind
of sequence of the preceding four measures. The segment, m. 21-28, repeated in m.
29-36 (where
it overlaps the beginning of the recapitulation, m.
36) possesses the
independence of an episode, but functions here as a remodulation (Neapolitan triad,
followed by V and I). The A-scction ends on VII (the subtonic of e minor). Hence, the
recapitulation is changed considerably and its ending reaffirmed with added codettas.
The last of these (m. 48-49), an augmentation of m. 47, can be considered as a written-
out ritardando, such as performers conventionally supply to make the ending of a
piece distinct.
String Quartet, Op. 74 (Harp Quartet), Presto. In m. 17 a long episode in the Nea-
politan region begins.
Its partial repetition remodulatcs. The recapitulation (m. 37)
quotes only three measures of the beginning, and continues with a liquidating form
of m. 3 to another episode on a pedal G (m. 43). This is partly repeated on a pedal (
(m. 51). A series of codettas follows, but the usual form of the cadence
is avoided.
One may venture the hypothesis that this is intentional to provide an opening for the
transition (m. 423) which connects this movement with the last movement.
Symphonies Nos.
1 , 2 and 4 also exhibit extensions in the recapitulation, and codet-
tas. The last codetta in the Scherzo of the Second Symphony
is augmented, like a
ritardando.
Symphony No.
3, Scherzo. The recapitulation, besides an extension, has a very
long coda
section
(beginning
in m.
115) comprising
fifty-two measures,
which
elaborates and liquidates two codetta-like segments.
Brahms, Sextet, Op. 18, Scherzo. In the recapitulation, the twelve measures of the
A-section are extended to eighteen by stubbornly repeating a circumscribing figure
while the harmony changes below it.
Brahms, Sextet, Op. 36, Scherzo. The subdominant flavour of the A-section perhaps
accounts for the deceptive use of a long ostinato around the G
(1), and the
false
recapitulation beginning in m. 56 or 57. The real recapitulation (m. 69) is introduced
by the very remote minor triad on F%.
It
is concluded by three groups of codettas.
THE CODA
In larger forms even a considerable number of codettas may not be sufficient to
counterbalance all the preceding harmonic movement. Though this is seldom the case
in the scherzo, nevertheless short coda sections arc often found in classical scherzos.
They consist of a number of codettas or codetta-like segments, occasionally modu-
latory, but always returning to the tonic. Generally, the later ones are progressively
shortened, in a liquidating manner, even to the smallest residues.
A more detailed discussion will be found in Chapter XVIII.
THE TRIO
The relation between scherzo and trio is the same as that between minuet and trio.
In many cases, the repetition of the scherzo follows a complete ending of the trio.
In other cases the recapitulation of the trio is liquidated into a transition, introducing
an upbeat chord for the repetition of the scherzo (Op. 2/3; String Quartet, Op. 18/1
;
Fifth Symphony, m. 224-35). Often a little segment may be inserted between trio and
scherzo.
In Op. 26 and the String Quartet, Op.
18/2, the motive of the scherzo
is
reintroduced on modulatory harmony. A similar segment
in Beethoven's Seventh
Symphony (m. 221-234) sounds like a
little reminiscence of the trio.
In the last two
measures (m. 235-6) a transposition of the motive reintroduces F.
The
little segment in tonic minor in the String Quartet, Op.
18/6 (m. 65-68) is a
peculiar way of producing a slight contrast between the trio and scherzo, both in
B\>
major.
It is questionable whether this contrast of tonality is adequate, but recognition
of the need for such contrast is important.
The Scherzo of Brahms's Second Sextet, Op. 36, presents an extraordinary example
of mediation between two apparently heterogeneous themes. In m. 227, twenty-four
measures before the repetition of the scherzo
in 2/4, a segment of eight measures
appears (Ex.
123a), whose foresentence
is a reduction of the preceding measures,
which conclude the recapitulation of the trio (Ex.
1236). The analysis shows the
derivation of m. 5-8 from the trio melody; while m.
1-4 distinctly prepare for the
first phrase of the scherzo. Moreover, the construction of m. 1-4, in tw-os and fours,
may be considered a preparation for the return of 2/4. The passage ends in a written-
out ritardando, using the first notes of the ensuing scherzo.
Scherzo movements arc often enlarged to the dimensions of a rondo. In the String
Quartets, Op. 74 and Op. 95, and Symphonies 4 and 7, Beethoven interpolates the
trio twice, alternating with three appearances of the scherzo. Schumann, in extension
of this idea, introduces two different trios (Piano Quintet, Op. 44).


===== PDF PAGE 91 =====


===== PDF PAGE 95 =====
XVII
THEME AND VARIATIONS
Musical terminology is often ambiguous. This is due primarily to the origin of most
of the terms : they are borrowed from other fields, such as poetry, architecture, paint-
ing and aesthetics. Terms like metre, symmetry, colour and balance are typical. But
even worse
is the use of single terms,
like ‘inversion’, for several different
things.
One speaks of the first or second ‘inversion’ of a triad; the ‘inversion’ ofan interval;
mirror-like ‘inversion’, vertical and horizontal; contrapuntal ‘inversion’, as in mul-
tiple counterpoint.
Similarly, the term ‘variation’ has a number of meanings. Variation creates the
motive-forms for the construction of themes.
It produces contrast in middle sections,
and variety in repetitions. But in ‘Theme and Variations’ it is the structural principle
for a whole piece.
Production of an entire piece merely through the application of variation
is an
approach to the logic of larger compositions.
As the name indicates, the piece consists of a theme and several variations upon it.
The number of variations is determined by whether it is a movement in a cyclic work,
like Op. 26-1, Op. 14/2—11, Op. 11
1 -II; or an independent piece like the 32 Variations
in c minor , or the 33 Diabelli Variations, Op.
1 20. A middle movement in a cyclic work
includes a lesser number of variations. Often the piece is concluded by a coda, finale
or fugue. In other cases the
last variation
is extended; and sometimes there
is no
special ending after the last variation.
STRUCTURAL CONSTITUTION OF THE THEME
There are themes which
facilitate, and others which impede, the production of
variations.
Variations are primarily
repetitions, which would become
intolerable
without constant restimulation of the
listener’s interest.
If the theme contains too
many and too interesting features, there remains little scope for the additions which
a simple theme readily permits.
Many classical variations are based on popular or folk melodies of the time. But
such variations as Bach's Goldberg Variations ; Beethoven’s Op. 35, and the 32 Varia-
tions ; Brahms’s String Quartet, Op. 67-IV and many others are based on the com-
poser’s own theme.
A simple theme will consist of closely related motive-forms, in preference to distant
ones (Op. 14/2— II). Structurally, the theme should show definite subdivision and clear


===== PDF PAGE 96 =====
SMALL FORMS
phrasing. One usually finds binary or ternary forms. The 12 Variations in A, the 24
Variations in D, and Op.
1
1 1—II, for example, are binary. 1 Op. 14/2—II and Op. 26-1
are ternary. An exceptional case
is the passacaglia-like theme, a sentence of eight
measures, of the 32 Variations in c.
The harmony should be simple, and should not change too frequently or too irregu-
larly. See, for example, Beethoven's 15 Variations in E\>, Op. 35; Diabelli Variations ,
Op. 120; 12 Variations in A
; 24 Variations in D ; 6 Variations in G ; 6 Easy Variations
in G. Except for the cadential segment, none of these themes contains more than two
harmonies to a measure. In Op. 35 there is one harmony per measure ; in the A Varia-
tions there are two; and in the D and G Variations there are three harmonies to two
measures. But in the first eight measures of the Diabelli Waltz, the harmony changes
only once. The use of mere interchange of
I and V contributes to the simplicity of
many of these themes.
The harmony of the 6 Variations in G, though simple, is characteristic, especially
because of the sequence in the middle section. The same procedure, among others,
contributes to the memorability of the theme of Op. 26-1.
Even a master like Beethoven did not make many variations when the theme was
long or complicated as, for instance, in the 6 Variations in F, Op. 34
; and perhaps also
in Op. 14/2—II.
A unifying accompaniment facilitates variation, while one which changes too much
can be a handicap. For this reason Beethoven,
in the 9 Variations on a March of
Dressier, makes no other change
in
the
first variation than the substitution of a
unifying accompaniment.
It
is not easy to write a good original theme for variation.
It may, therefore, be
useful to select a theme whose suitability has already been proved, in sets of variations
by such masters as Haydn, Mozart and Beethoven.
RELATION BETWEEN THEME AND VARIATIONS
The form originated, perhaps, in the custom of repeating a pleasant theme several
times, avoiding a decline of interest by introducing embellishments and other addi-
tions. This may be why the classic masters made
it a point that the theme should be
recognizable in the variation.
Thus the course of events should not be changed, even if the character is changed;
the number and order of the segments remains the same. Sometimes the metre
is
changed, the tempo is changed or the number of measures is systematically multiplied
1 This type of theme structure is characterized by two balanced segments, built from closely related but
differentiated motive-forms, so that the second section
is in some respects a contrast. Generally the first
segment ends on the dominant; the second begins in the dominant (or other closely related) region, and
closes with a cadence to
I.
lifference betv
contrast 02
I
THEME AND VARIATIONS
169
by two or three. But, in general, the proportions and structural relations of the parts,
and the main features, are preserved. Of course, the viewpoint as to which constitute
the main features is subject to change. Every variation should possess the same quality
of formal self-sufficiency and coherence as the theme itself.
THE MOTIVE OF VARIATION
In classical music every variation shows a unity which surpasses that of the theme.
It results from the systematic application of a motive of variation.
In higher forms
the motive derives from the theme itself, thus connecting all the variations intimately
with the theme.
In the practice form the motive should consist of a predetermined figure, modified
no more than accommodation to the harmony and structure requires (see, for example,
the first eleven of the Variations in c minor).
PRODUCTION OF THE MOTIVE OF VARIATION
In order to arrive at a suitable motive of variation,
it
is necessary to recognize the
essentials of the theme. Simplification by omission of everything which can he con-
sidered subordinate
(e.g. embellishments, grace notes, passing notes, suspensions,
appoggiaturas, trills, runs, etc.) unveils the basic construction. In making this reduc-
tion the relation to the harmony must be taken into consideration (see Exs.
124a,
126a). The simultaneous rhythmic simplification sometimes requires regularization,
as in the last four measures of Ex.
124a, where some features have to be shifted to
other beats. Since the viewpoint determining what features are essential
is not neces-
sarily uniform for all variations, there may be more than one usable ‘skeleton’.
Since the motive of variation must be adaptable to the chosen ‘skeleton’, its nature
and length will be limited by the number and distribution of the principal tones and
harmonies.
It will scarcely be longer than two measures;
in many cases it is a half-
measure or even less.
Variation around the principal
tones.
In the motives for at
least the
first few
variations,
it is common practice to circumscribe the principal tones with neighbour-
ing tones. Often tones of the theme are included in parts of scale lines or broken
chords. Of course, such elements must
fit the expressed harmony. The rhythmic
organization of the motive of variation has a great deal to do with
its character. It
is
normally maintained consistently throughout the variation.
Illustrations from the literature
Beethoven, Diabelli Variations. A considerable number of the variations (2, 9,
1 1,
12, 14, 18, 28, for example) derive the motive of variation from more or less elaborate
circumscription of the principal tones. Examples
1 246, c and d show some of these


===== PDF PAGE 97 =====
170
SMALL FORMS
THEME AND VARIATIONS
171
cases in relation to the skeleton of Ex. 124a. Observe the rhythmic displacement of
the principal tones.
Beethoven, 32 Variations in c minor. The figure in sixteenth-notes of the first three
variations is a combination of a broken chord with tone repetitions, the latter derived
from the repeated G of the first three measures of the theme. The rhythmicization of
the harmony in the first two variations also contributes to the motive of variation.
Exs. 125a and b show the derivation of the motives of variation for Variations 4 and
5. In Variation 5, note the exchanged positions ofC and Eh, an exchange which occurs
elsewhere as well (see Variations 7 and 9).
Brahms, Handel Variations. Brahms derives substantially
all the motives for his
twenty-five variations from the features of the theme. For instance, the motive of the
first variation derives from the bass of the first measure, doubly diminished rhyth-
mically. Its rhythmical complement furnishes the accompaniment figure. The same
three notes in triplets form the motive for the second variation. The curious derivation
of the motive in Variation 16 is shown in Exs. 127a and b.
APPLICATION AND ELABORATION OF THE MOTIVE OF VARIATION
The motive of variation must accommodate itself to every movement of the har-
mony (which itself is subject to variation), and must contain all the principal tones of
the theme.
Variety within
the
variation
requires appropriate elaboration of the
motive. Additional elaborations are the consequences of such structural features as
cadences, contrasts and subdivisions. This will result in variation within the variation.
Illustrationsfrom the literature
Beethoven, Diabelli Variations. The contrast between the static harmony of m. 1-8
and 17-24 and the sequences of m. 9-12 and 25-28 requires great flexibility in the
motives of variation. As a consequence, many are very short. Elsewhere the motive is
adapted, or
further varied, where the more rapid harmonic change occurs
(e.g.
Variations 3, 7, 8, 12, 18, 19 and 23). The sequences are varied in almost all the varia-
tions by substituting different progressions, often very far-reaching, as for instance in
Variation 5. Variation 20 is harmonically fantastic; even in the post-Wagnerian epoch
it would have been called 'modernistic'.
Beethoven, 15 Variations in E\>, Op. 35. The three variations preceding the entrance
of the theme are built merely as contrapuntal additions to the bass. In Variation
1
(following the theme) the motive is modified greatly (m. 5) in adaptation to the richer
movement ofthe harmony. The motive of Variation 3 is compounded of two elements,
the shifting of which deranges the phrasing. In m. 13 even the change of harmony
occurs as an anticipation, on the weak beat. In many of these variations, which are
written in a brilliant piano style, the specific formulation of the motive is less obli-
gatory. The preservation of the motus admits rather remote changes. In Variation 4
the sixteenth notes begin as scale lines; but in m. 9 they arc changed to broken chords,
and in m. 13 the system of arpeggiation is again changed. Variation 7, a canon in the
octave, is an illustration of Beethoven's Olympic wit.
There are two variations in minor. Variation 14 in eb, deviates from the original
harmony only in the use of some transformations (especially the Neapolitan sixth).
But the other. Variation
6,
is extremely
interesting. The theme, with
insignificant
adaptations,
is harmonized almost entirely
in
c. Only the
last two measures
re-
establish £j>.
Beethoven, 32 Variations in c minor. Variation 5 of the 32 Variations is an example
of development within a variation. The sixteenth-notes of the motive of variation are
an ‘echo’ of the sixteenth-notes of Variations 1-3. This rhythmic figure determines the
character of the variation. But the main feature, jij
in Ex.
1256, derives from the
theme's m. 7-8, as demonstrated in Ex. 125c. The climactic development of m. 5-6 in
the theme
is carried out here by a concentration, three forms of the motive squeezed
together. Even more compressed arc the imitative repetitions in m. 7-8.
The elaboration of some motives admits various treatments. The method of using
one idea in several variations, in quasi-contrapuntal inversion, occurs in Variations
I,
2 and 3. The relation is similar between Variations 10 and
1
1
; 20 and 21. This latter
pair
is extended to a group of three by Variation 22, in which a simplification of the
triplet figure
is treated
in canonic imitation. Variations
15 and
16 are practically
identical, except for a slight rhythmic change.
The interchange of major and minor is a striking source of harmonic variety. But
it
is never carried out mechanically, by merely changing the key signature. For instance,
in Variations
12,
13,
15 and
16, the
I
IV of m. 3-4
is replaced by VI
II, and the
approach to the cadence is also modified.
In the third measure of Variations 3 and 29 the
I
is replaced by a harmony whose
appearance in c is difficult to understand;
it is best interpreted as a passing harmony
produced by the parallel movement of bass and soprano.
Brahms, Handel Variations, Op. 24. Brahms frequently produces new skeletons by
changing the viewpoint as to which are the main features and which are subordinate.
This enables him, for instance, to consider m. 7 of Variation 3 as an upbeat to the
cadential subdominant of m. 8, converting the
1 chord into the dominant of the sub-
dominant. He similarly simplifies m. 5 and 6 by omission of passing harmonies. This
reduction to principal content, however, admits the contrary treatment in Variation
1—
the addition of passing harmonies (m. 6) required by the imitations in the main voice.
In Variation 2 Brahms ventures a far-reaching structural change, which
is then
applied in Variations 5,
1 1 and 20, as well. Half of m.
1
is repeated in m. 2 (Ex. 127c),
which reduces the significance of m. 2 to that of a mere interpolation between m.
I
and 3. Thus the second measure has been subordinated to the first to produce a two-
measure phrase.


===== PDF PAGE 98 =====
172
SMALL FORMS
THEME AND VARIATIONS
173
BUT NO MATTER HOW FAR-REACHING THE MODIFICATIONS WITHIN A VARIATION, THE
PIANO STYLE REMAINS CONSISTENT.
Much of the harmonic variation in the Handel Variations derives from the melodic
progression from the B\> of the first measure to the D in the third. Brahms converts
this into a harmonic progression by transplanting it to the bass as a root progression
tonic-mediant. Thus the mediant in the third measure in Variations 7, 9, 11, Hand 19
is utilized to lead to cadences on the dominant, or on the mediant (major or minor).
In the minor variations (5, 6 and
13) the third measures stand on mediant major
and the cadences lead to V, III and V. Among other interesting harmonic varia-
tions, in Variation 4 the third measure is VI, and in Variation 17 it is IV (instead of I
or III).
The twentieth variation
is characterized by chromatic movement in melody and
bass. In the ninth variation, the B-section begins on the dominant (F)\ but the written-
out repetition begins on F$ (in the meaning of G[>), establishing the closely related
region of flat submediant major.
COUNTERPOINT IN VARIATIONS
In some respects all variations have a certain relation to counterpoint,
if only to
the preliminary exercises: the five species—adding one or more voices to a ‘cantus
firmus’. In variations, the theme acts as cantus firmus; perhaps also the acceleration
of the motus derives from this source.
But every sort of contrapuntal treatment may be found, and sometimes the entire
organization of a variation is based upon contrapuntal procedures. Structural changes
may be very far-reaching when, for instance, a fugue is built upon a derivative of the
theme.
Illustrationsfrom the literature
Beethoven, 32 Variations in c minor. Most of the variations consist in adding one or
more voices to the basic scheme. The procedure, with respect to the bass, is similar to
the passacaglias of Bach and Brahms, and the ostinato finale of Brahms's Haydn
Variations.
Of a higher order are those variations which display combinative counterpoint.
Free imitations appear in Variation 17; a canon in Variation 22. Variations 10 and
1
1 . 20 and 21 are in double counterpoint at the octave.
Beethoven, Variations in E\>, Op. 35. Variation 7 is canonic, and the set is concluded
with a Finale alia Fuga.
Beethoven, Diahelli Variations. Contrapuntal devices include: a fugue (Variation
32) and a fughetta (Variation 24), canonic imitation in Variations 19 and 20, and free
imitation in many others, e.g. 4,
1 1, 14, 20 and 30.
Brahms, Handel Variations. The Finale is again a fugue. Variation 6
is a canon
;
Variation 8 is based on double counterpoint at the octave. Quasi-contrapuntal pianistic
imitations contribute to the coherence within Variations 16, 18, 23 and 24.
From the viewpoint of contrapuntal artistry, Variations 4 and 8 of Brahms’s Varia-
tions on a Theme of Haydn , Op. 56a, are of particular interest. Variation 4 consists of
double, or rather triple, counterpoint, invertible at the octave and twelfth. Variation 8
contains a complex of mirror forms in multiple counterpoint.
SKETCHING THE VARIATIONS
In preparation for the composition of a set of variations, the theme should be
thoroughly explored and the best openings for variations determined. After the theme
has been reduced to its essentials, a large number of sketches, which explore a variety
of motives of variation, should be made. Even if many of them prove stiff and awk-
ward, or if an otherwise promising motive turns out to be unworkable, nevertheless
the composer acquires an intimate acquaintance with the theme, its possibilities, and
the limitations
it imposes. Often elements of different sketches may be combined to
provide a striking and effective motive of variation.
From the many partial sketches the more promising may then be selected for com-
pletion and polishing.
COMMENT ON EXAMPLES 126
In Ex. 126a a skeleton
is derived from Beethoven's Piano Sonata, Op. 79-111. In
this particular case little more than the simplified melody and the bass proves neces-
sary. The following examples illustrate the application of a number of simple motives
of variation.
In Ex. 1266 the melody notes are circumscribed with appoggiaturas and intervening
sixteenth-notes, which provide continuous movement. The bass is subjected only to
a slight rhythmic change. In this somewhat primitive treatment the main notes always
appear at the same point in the figure.
Ex. 126c achieves more fluency and variety by avoiding such mechanical reitera-
tion
; the main notes are somewhat freely distributed, though they remain in the same
half-measure. A simple figuration
is applied to the accompaniment. The variety in
Ex.
1 26d, in which notes of various lengths are used, is even greater.
In Ex. 126c the bass is treated as the melodic voice and the upper elements become
the accompaniment.
The accompaniment in Ex. 126d,f and g ,
is the object of considerable variation
through rhythmic changes, use of inversions and harmonic enrichment.
Ex. 126g is carried out completely. The motive-forms are shifted and further varied
in the region of the cadence. The rhythmic figure jij evolves to maintain the motus,
and the suspensions of the motive of variation are
split
into separate eighths in
m. 6-7.


===== PDF PAGE 99 =====
174
SMALL FORMS
ORGANIZATION OF THE SET
A distinction
is often made between formal variations and character variations.
But there is no reason to suppose that a variation can be so formal as not to possess
character. On the contrary,
it is precisely the character which contributes variety.
Every composer, in sketching motives for variation, will consider the necessity of
providing sufficient contrast of character.
Such contrasts are especially necessary if the piece, in traditional fashion, offers no
greater key contrast between variations than tonic major—tonic minor (maggiore—
minore). The Six Variations, Op. 34, of Beethoven present a unique deviation from this
principle. While the theme is in F, the variations are in D, Bi>, G, E\>, c, F. There are
also great differences of tempo and character. The theme and
first variation are
adagio; the second, ‘allegro ma non troppo’; the third, allegretto; the fourth, 'tempo
di Menuctto’; the fifth, ‘Marcia: allegretto’; the sixth, allegretto; followed by a coda
section which returns to the adagio of the beginning. The contrast of character
is
further enhanced by altering the metre: 2/4, 2/4, 6/8, 4/4, 3/4, 2/4, 6/8, 2/4.
From the standpoint of aesthetics, there is no reason why the whole set should be
restricted to one tonic. The symphony and the sonata long ago outgrew this restriction.
Brahms increases variety by intermingling lyric variations with the more rhythmic
ones. In the Handel Variations one might tentatively characterize some of the varia-
tions as: lyric or cantabile (5, 6 and II); impassioned (9 and 20); rhythmic (7 and 8);
Hungarian (13); musette-like (22). Note the suggestive interpretive indications : legato,
staccato, risoluto, dolce, energico, grazioso, leggiero.
The most important principle of organization
is variety. This docs not preclude
grouping two or three variations, without considerable change of character, especially
ifan idea is elaborated in several steps. Since Beethoven, the general tendency has been
to build up toward a climax (in very long sets, a series of climaxes), which may be
emotional, rhythmic, dynamic, velocitative or any combination of these.
Occasionally a short bridge or transition
is inserted between variations (e.g. Six
Variations, Op. 34, Variations 5-6). Generally, also, a coda or finale is added, which is
sometimes an outgrowth of the last variation. Detailed discussion of techniques for
such passages will be reserved for Chapter XVIII.
THEME AND VARIATIONS
175
Ex. 124
a) Butkovea, Diabelli Variations, Op. !20
VARIATIONS


===== PDF PAGE 100 =====


===== PDF PAGE 101 =====
THE PARTS OF LARGER FORMS
179
PART
III
LARGE FORMS
XVIII
THE PARTS OF LARGER FORMS
(SUBSIDIARY FORMULATIONS)
Larger forms may consist of larger parts, or more parts, or both.
Smaller parts may be expanded by means of internal repetitions, sequences, exten-
sions,
liquidations and broadening of connectives. The number of parts may be
increased by supplying codettas, episodes, etc. In such situations, derivatives of the
basic motive are formulated into new thematic units. Their structural function, how-
ever, is co-ordinate rather than contrasting.
Large forms develop through the generating power of contrasts. There are innu-
merable kinds of contrast; the larger the piece, the more types of contrast should be
present to illuminate the main idea.
In the simpler forms the chief contrast
is furnished by the harmony, organized to
express appropriate related regions. In the scherzo the modulatory
is presented in
opposition to the stable. In larger forms a modulatory passage may be organized into
an independent section, the transition, which connects the main theme with another
stable contrasting idea, the secondary or subordinate theme.
THE TRANSITION
The purpose of a transition is not only to introduce a contrast
; it is, itself, a contrast.
It may begin, after the end of the main theme, with new thematic formulations; or the
end of the main theme may be modified thematically and harmonically into a con-
necting segment.
A transition, especially if it is an independent section, belongs to the group of sub-
sidiary ideas. Transitions appear at various places in larger forms; between principal
and subordinate themes (modulating to a different region); as retransitions (returning
to the tonic); or, in the recapitulation, reformulated as a roundabout way from tonic
to tonic.
The structure of a transition ordinarily includes four elements: establishment of the
Iransitional idea (through repetition, often sequential); modulation (often in several
stages); liquidation of motival characteristics; and establishment of a suitable upbeat
chord. These aspects may overlap in varying degrees.
THE TRANSITION WITH AN INDEPENDENT THEME
When a special transitional theme follows the main theme,
it
is customarily differ-
ent in structure from the preceding and following themes. The theme consists of a
short segment within which the constituent motive-forms are
only
slightly varied.
Short rhythmic
figures
lend themselves
readily and
flexibly
to
the
processes of
modulation and liquidation. After the
initial statement, at least a partial repetition
establishes the idea, after which modulation begins. Fluid change of region and prompt
elimination of characteristic features distinguish the transition from the stable themes
which normally precede and follow
it.
Illustrations from the literature
Op. 2/2-1. The transition starts in m. 32, with a segment of four measures, built
from an inversion of m. 9-10 of the main theme. A partial repetition (a third higher)
modulates to V of the dominant (m. 42). Over a pedal point the scale line is liquidated
by interrupting the descent twice. M. 42-57 dwell on the dominant, a fact which
facilitates the conversion of E major (m. 39) into e minor (in. 58).
Op. 2/2-IV. The initial segment of the transition is built on a cadence (m. 17 -20),
above which a figure in sixteenths provides the motival content. In the continuation
only two measures are repeated (with a slight variation), followed by a turn toward
the dominant region, E (m. 24), the tonic of the following section.
Op. 2/3-1. The initial segment of the transition consists of four measures (m. 13-
16). Its repetition is modified to end on V (m. 21), around which the harmony dwells
for six measures,
still without any real modulation
(the
Ffl remains merely orna-
mental). The relation to the following subordinate theme
is peculiar (see p.
183).
Op. 10/3-1V. This very short Rondo contains all the normal constituent parts in
miniature. The transition (m. 9), in spite of an internal repetition, consists of only
seven measures, and leads merely to a V, without any real modulation.
Op. 7-1V. The transition starts (m. 17) with a motive, in the left hand, which pre-
viously appeared (m. 9) as the motive of the contrasting middle section of the main
theme. It settles down (m. 24) to an interchange of 1 and V of the dominant region,
associated with the usual liquidation. Surprisingly,
it ends (m. 36) with an enriched
cadence (starting in m. 30) to
I of the dominant region. The ending on
1 of the
dominant region cannot here be convincingly explained as an overlap.
It
is better


===== PDF PAGE 102 =====
LARGE FORMS
explained by the fact that an ending on V would not have been a good introduction
for the following VI, an artificial dominant.
Op. 13-111. The initial segment of the transition (m. 18-21) consists of little more
than a modulatory progression. A sequence-like repetition ends on
1 of the mediant
region, overlapping the beginning of the subordinate theme.
Op. 31/2-11. The initial segment of the transition consists of two phrases above a
pedal point on B\> (m. 18-21). In m. 22, the first phrase is repeated in such a variation
that its second measure can be understood as deriving rhythmically from the second
phrase. From this variant a
little episode evolves, over a pedal point on V of the
dominant region, which is liquidated in m. 27-30.
For additional examples of independent transitions, see also: Op. 10/1—I, m. 32;
Op. 22-11, m. 13-18; Op. 90-1, m. 25.
TRANSITIONS EVOLVING FROM THE PREVIOUS THEME
Technically,
it makes no essential difference whether the process of modulation
and liquidation is applied to a special theme, or to elements of the main theme. Some-
times the modulation starts promptly and the transitional character is pronounced.
In other cases almost the entire main theme is repeated and transitional features are
postponed to the last measures. These instances make the impression of varied repeti-
tions, the transitional techniques at the end growing out of the variation.
Illustrationsfrom the literature
Op. 2/1-1. A transposition of the beginning of the main theme (m. 9) initiates the
modulation. Liquidation begins immediately, while the harmony moves sequentially
to V of the mediant region (relative major), which, at the third approach, becomes
a pedal point below the subordinate theme.
Op. 2/3—IV. A direct quotation of the
first four measures of the main theme
is
diverted harmonically by the introduction of D$ in its final chord. The last two mea-
sures are sequenced and then liquidated by the chain-like linkage of residues in a
descending scale line, leading to V of the dominant region.
Op.
14/1-1. A quotation of the beginning (m.
13)
is diverted through chromatic
progressions to V of the dominant (m.
17), which
is firmly established over a pedal
point.
The previous three examples grew out of the beginning of the main theme. The next
two make use of its ending.
Op. 13-1. After an introduction, the principal theme appears in m.
11. It ends on
the dominant in m. 35, with a quarter-note figure related to the initial figure. This
figure—the
‘tail’ of the theme—is picked up and used quasi-sequentially (m. 39) to
lead to V of the relative major. (Oddly, the subordinate theme lies in efj. instead of the
expected E\>)
THE PARTS OF LARGER FORMS
Op. 31/1—III. In each of its many repetitions the main theme ends with a twice
repeated figure (cf. m. 15-16, 31-32). This figure (m. 33) supplies all the material for
the transition. Observe the reduction to
its upbeat (m. 36), which, in chain linkage,
provides the liquidation.
Op. 7-1. Here the opening motive
is joined (m. 25-28) with a rhythmically new
motive-form (m. 27) to move rather abruptly to V of the dominant region (m. 35).
In some instances, instead of fragments of the main theme reorganized to produce
a distant formulation, the principal theme is repeated substantially in its entirety, but
adapted to modulatory harmony.
Op. 53-1. A slightly varied repetition of the beginning appears in m.
14. The con-
tinuation in m. 18 is transposed up a third, as compared to the original statement in
m.
5. An inserted measure (22) on the augmented sixth chord leads to V of E. The
ensuing passage work
is considerably extended by way of liquidation. Thus every
element of the main theme appears in the transitional section.
Op. 57-1. In m. 17 a varied repetition of the beginning occurs. The long notes of the
original formulation are subdivided into an alternating chord pattern, the insertion
of which stretches the content of the first four measures to six. A varied repetition of
the last phrase (m. 23) is diverted to the dominant of a\> minor. The ensuing measures
of liquidation permit the ear to accept
it as the dominant of A\> major at the entry
of the subordinate theme (m. 36).
The modification, reduction or omission of the transition
in the recapitulation
section are discussed on pp. 193-5.
THE RETRANSITION
In rondos, the return from the subordinate theme to the principal theme, and in
sonatas, the return to the beginning after the exposition, are generally so simple that
no special segment is necessary. Nevertheless, there are occasionally small connecting
segments, which act as both ‘bridges’ and ‘spacers’. See, for example, Op. 2/2-IV,
m. 39-41, or m. 95-100; Op. 7-IV, m. 48-49, and m. 89-93.
Functionally and psychologically more important are the retransitions after modu-
latory contrasts and Durchfiihrungen. Since the actual remodulation usually takes place
as a part of the preceding modulatory section, the retransition proper starts on the
upbeat harmony, and generally consists of little more than liquidation of the motival
residues. The motive material often derives from subsidiary themes; sometimes refer-
ences to features of the principal theme forecast its return.
Illustrations from the literature
Op.
2/2-1, m.
210-24, and Op.
10/1 -I, m.
158-67,
exhibit
little more
than
liquidating devices around the dominant harmony.
In Op. 28-1, m. 257-68 the retransition carries out a real modulation, using motive


===== PDF PAGE 103 =====
182
LARGE FORMS
*
THE PARTS OF LARGER FORMS
material from the closing theme. The Dwchfuhrung proper comes to a close on a V
of the submediant which is affirmed over a pedal point for thirty-eight measures.
By contrast the real dominant is maintained for only two measures (m. 267-8).
Op. 7-1 is even more extraordinary (if not unique). Remodulation plus retransition
here takes place in two measures (m. 187-8), and, moreover, after dwelling for a time
in the exceedingly remote regions of a minor and d minor.
Op. 2/1-1. The retransition (m. 93) differs from the first two examples only with
respect to the motive material which clearly anticipates the second measure of the
principal theme.
Op. 31/1-1. In m. 170 the syncopated rhythm in the right hand is a hint at one of the
chief features of the theme.
Op. 90-1. A sixteenth-note figure appears on the second beat of m. 130 which, in
m. 1 33, is augmented to longer note values. After several additional rhythmic metamor-
phoses, it turns out to be a preparation for the first three notes of the theme (m. 144).
Op. 53-1, m.
146. The sixteenth-note figure from m. 3, over an ostinato, serves as
a preparation for the corresponding measure of the recapitulation.
Eroica Symphony-I. The retransition is a very dramatic case.
It starts in m. 366,
on the submediant of the tonic minor (bVI), with the motive-form of m. 5, which is
soon liquidated and reduced to a single repeated tone. It is concluded with the famous
entrance of the horn, which presents the tonic form of the main theme accompanied
by the sustained dominant harmony. Wagner, who was probably right, considered
it
a misprint, and had the horn play in Br> instead of £[>•
Op. 13-1. The dominant is reached in m. 167 and remains as a pedal in the left hand
up to m.
1 87. The frequent dynamic changes and sforzaii help to make this retransition
the dramatic climax of the whole movement. The phrases in m. 171-4 and 179-81
are easily recognizable anticipations of the main theme, to which the eighth-note
figure beginning in m.
187
is also related. The eight-measure passage, m.
187-94,
functions both as a liquidation of the stormy climax and as a connective to the
beginning of the recapitulation.
Op. 10/3—IV. The entire retransition derives from the principal theme, beginning
with a quotation of the opening (m. 46), which, were it not in ‘the wrong key’, could
be mistaken for the recapitulation. It leads to the dominant region, using harmony
from the tonic minor, and is followed by a liquidating passage (m. 50), derived from
m. 3 of the theme.
Op. 22-IV. The C-section of this rondo ends in the tonic minor (m. 103). Further
modulation would not harmonically be necessary. But perhaps a contrast was neces-
sary because much of the preceding section was in or around 6b minor. This is pro-
vided by a turn to a rather remote region (m. 105) and a subsequent remodulation.
The thematic material of these measures
is practically a transposition of the main
motive, which is neutralized in the continuation.
183
THE GROUP OF SUBORDINATE THEMES
Subordinate themes may have originated as condensations and stabilizations within
a contrasting modulatory movement. At
first
little more than episodes, they later
developed into definite subsidiary sections, establishing and ending in a related key,
e.g. dominant or relative major.
Ideally, subordinate themes are derivatives of the basic motive, even though the
connexion may
not
be
readily
visible.
Contrast
in mood, character, dynamics,
rhythm, harmony, motive-forms and construction should distinguish main themes
from subordinate, and subordinate themes from each other.
Aesthetically, the most important type of contrast is that of construction, since
it
is evidence of subordination . Repetitions within the main theme enhance memorability
and, through variation, prepare for development and elaboration. In subordinate
themes mere repetition and juxtaposition often replace development and elaboration.
Thus there are frequently a number of distinct formulations, each established and
then abandoned to make way for the next—the group of subordinate themes.
Illustrationsfrom the literature
Op. 2/1-1. In m. 21-25, a phrase appears three times.
It is followed by a little seg-
ment juxtaposed in m. 26 and partially repeated in m. 31-32. In m. 33, a new con-
cluding segment is again juxtaposed and, in turn, repeated. Codettas begin in m. 41.
Op. 2/2-1. Here the group of subordinate themes
is similarly organized. The little
segment in m. 59-62 is twice sequentially repeated. In m. 70 a two-measure segment
derived from the end of the previous pattern is stated and also sequenced twice. In
m. 76 derivatives of the principal theme are juxtaposed without any connective.
A cadential segment (m. 84) and its repetition bring the subordinate section to a close
in m. 92. Codettas follow.
Op. 2/2-IV. A two-measure phrase (m. 27-28)
is repeated and, after a partial
second repetition, liquidated by means of sequential and other repetitions of a differ-
ing segment (m. 32-39).
Op. 2/3-1. The first subordinate theme (m. 27) starts in the region of minor v, intro-
duced by substitution for the preceding dominant of C. This relation to the transition
is a peculiar case, paralleled by the first movement of the String Quartet, Op. 18/5
(m. 25), but scarcely to be found in Beethoven's later works.
A
six-measure segment (m.
27-32)
is
repeated
quasi-sequentially (m.
33-38).
A different two-measure segment (m. 39-40) is juxtaposed, repeated and reduced to
two one-measure variants (m. 43-44). A two-measure connective introduces another,
more lyrical theme (m. 47-61), which makes interesting use of imitations and exchange
between voices in the manner of double counterpoint. Other distinct formulations
appear in m. 61, 69, 73. Codettas follow.


===== PDF PAGE 104 =====
LARGE FORMS
Op. 10/3-IV. The insignificance of the content
(it
is
little more than a chromatic
scale line up and down) emphasizes the subordinateness of this theme. The two-
measure phrase (m. 17-18), a rhythmicized chromatic scale, is followed by a descend-
ing variation which is distinguished by deviations and deflections. A second repetition
of the original phrase leads directly to the upbeat harmony.
Op. 13—III. A four-measure phrase (m. 25-28)
is followed by a varied repetition
(m. 29-33). A triplet figure in m. 33 leads to a cadence in m. 37. An imitative episode
on the same figure is liquidated and again brought to a cadence in m. 43. Another
sharply contrasted segment (m. 44) with a varied repetition
gives way
to a
recur-
rence (m. 51) of the triplet figure, which in turn gives way to a remodulation.
Op.
14/1-II1. The entire subordinate theme comprises eight measures (m. 22-29),
a four-measure segment and its repetition.
It is evident that great diversity as to length and complexity may occur, even within
the style of a single composer. The evidence suggests, if generalization can be made,
a ‘looser’ construction, depending on immediate repetition of relatively short seg-
ments, joined to others by mere juxtaposition; and a lesser degree of internal develop-
ment.
THE ‘LYRIC THEME’
Under the influence of Schubert, theorists began to
call the subordinate theme
Gesangsthema, or ‘lyric theme’. This was a mistake, for there exist many subordinate
themes which are not lyric at
all. But this nomenclature had a curious influence on
the minds of composers, suggesting the creation of longer and longer lyric melodies.
The lyric, or singable, character is the result of a loose construction intimately related
to that of popular music. The ‘looseness’ consists in disregarding almost all features
except the rhythmic ones, thus neglecting the profounder implications, and providing
richness of content through the multiplication of themes.
Ofcourse, lyric subordinate themes appear in the works of predecessors ofSchubert,
because they form one of the potential contrasts. See, for instance, Mozart, Symphony
in g. K.V. 550-1, m. 44; String Quartet in F, K.V. 590-1, m. 31
; Beethoven, Piano
Sonatas, Op. 10/1-1, m. 56; Op. 13-1, m. 51
IT.; Op. 31/1-1, m. 66 ff.; Op. 53-1, m.
35; Op. 57-1, m. 36; String Quartet, Op. 18/4-1, m. 34.
Typical examples from Schubert include: Piano Sonata, Op.
143-1, m. 60 ff.;
Sonata in c, op. posth.-I, m. 40; String Quartet in d-1, m. 61
; String Quartet, Op. 163-
I, m. 60 and IV, m. 46; Piano Trio in Bb> Op. 99-1; Piano Trio in £b, Op. 100— I.
Typical examples from Brahms: String Quartet, Op. 51/2-1, m. 46; String Quintet,
Op.
1
1 1—I, m. 26; Second Symphony-I, at ‘C’; Third Symphony-I, fourteen measures
after ‘B’.
Among these examples the popular touch can readily be observed. Unified by a
persistent rhythm, the intervals change freely. In Beethoven’s Fifth Symphony-I, m.
THE PARTS OF LARGER FORMS
I8S
63-93, there is continuous movement in quarter-notes which persists for thirty-one
measures. The first phrase (four measures) is repeated twice without structural change,
and followed by two more four-measure phrases plus liquidation. The simple con-
struction is self-evident.
The piano does not lend itself readily to the song-like. Accordingly the lyric quality
is not so obvious in a piano theme as, for instance, in a theme for strings. In the pre-
viously mentioned illustrations from the Beethoven sonatas, one finds that the con-
trast is produced by multiple repetition, unvaried or slightly varied, of relatively long
phrases. In Op. 13-1, an eight-measure theme (m. 51) appears three times. Op. 31/1-1
presents a four-measure phrase (in mediant major, m. 66) in which a syncopated
rhythm appears three times. This phrase is repeated twice with slight variations, the
second time in mediant minor.
In Op. 53-1, the lyric character (‘dolce e molto legato’, m. 35) is clear in spite of the
piano style. Substantially the same rhythmic pattern appears seven times. In Op. 57-1,
m. 36 ff., within each of the three rhythmically identical appearances of the two-
measure phrase, the rhythmic motive itself appears three times. The lyric character
of this theme becomes particularly evident if one compares it with the ‘agitato’ section
following (m. 51
ff.).
THE CODA
Since many movements have no codas,
it
is evident that the coda must be con-
sidered as an extrinsic addition. The assumption that it serves to establish the tonality
is hardly justified;
it could scarcely compensate for failure to establish the tonality
in the previous sections. In fact, it would be difficult to give any other reason for the
addition of a coda than that the composer wants to say something more.
This may also account for the observed diversity of size and shape. In Op. 2/1-1
there
is only a short extension, hardly worth calling a coda. A short coda of 12
measures ends the first movement of Beethoven’s String Quartet, Op.
18/6. In Op.
2/2-IV, the coda (m. 148-87) is 40 measures long; in Op. 2/3-1 (m. 218-57) it is also
40 measures; in Op. 2/3-IV (m. 259-312) it is 54 measures. But in the first movement
of the Eroica Symphony, the coda is
1 35 measures long—almost a fifth of the entire
movement.
While an inclusive generalization is impossible, many codas conform more or less
to the following description.
Usually they start with richly elaborated cadences, containing deviations leading
even into rather remote regions. As the length of the segments decreases, so also the
complexity of the cadences decreases. The last codettas may omit even the cadential
subdominant. Interchange of V and I often
gives way to mere repetitions of the
tonic. The motive material
is, for the most part, derived from previous themes,
reformulated to conform to
cadential harmony and
effectively
liquidated. Many


===== PDF PAGE 105 =====
LARGE FORMS
codas grow out of a final repetition of the main theme, which becomes, in effect, a
part of the coda.
Illustrationsfrom the literature
Beethoven, String Quartet, Op.
1 8/4-1. The coda consists of four small segments.
The first (m. 208) is six measures long; it quotes and liquidates cadentially the motive
of the transition (m. 26). The next segment (m. 214-15) quotes and
liquidates
the
opening phrase. The third segment (m. 216-17), a further reduction, uses only residues
of the preceding phrase. The last segment carries the reduction to its logical conclu-
sion, the repetition of the tonic chord.
Note the progressive reduction of length and content. Of course, this reduction does
not occur invariably, and never with mechanical regularity.
Op. 2/2-IV. The last repetition of the main theme prepares for the coda to come
with a modulatory deviation in m.
140. But the real coda section begins in m. 148
with a segment of eight measures. In m. 156 a part of this
is repeated, and, through
an enharmonic conversion (d$ — e|>), leads to an episode in the Neapolitan region
(m.
159). In m. 161 the motive of the trio recurs over an interchange of I and V of
the Neapolitan region. The same motive provides the material for dwelling on the
dominant (m. 165) and the retransition (m. 169). The next segment is a slightly orna-
mented repetition of the main theme, followed by four short codettas.
Op. 7-IV. Here, too, the last repetition of the rondo theme deviates strikingly, its
A'-section appearing in the Neapolitan region. The remodulation (m. 161-6) makes
almost the impression of being the first part of the coda. The next segment, on a
cadential harmony,
is four measures long. The repetition (m. 171) is extended to six
measures. Codettas follow.
Op. 13—11. The coda consists of a two-measure phrase on V-l (m. 67) and its repeti-
tion. Three one-measure phrases precede the final tonic chords. This coda section is
extremely simple harmonically.
Op. 28-1. This movement is one of the longest among Beethoven's piano sonatas—
461 measures. But its coda (twenty-four measures) is proportionately very short, and
structurally simple. After a partial quotation of the main theme (m. 439), the last
motive-form (m. 446-7)
is followed by four repetitions, unvaried except as to the
upbeats, which ascend climactically in broken-chord form from a
1 to d3
. The ascension
is dramatically reinforced by a crescendo, and followed by liquidation reinforced by
a descrescendo.
Mozart, String Quartet in Z),K.V. 575—1 V. This coda(m. 200) offers an opportunity
to discuss a technique characteristic of Mozart, the technique of overlapping joints
which resembles dovetailing. It is often a result of extending, for instance, a segment
of four measures to five, or even six. It is evident that the six measures of Ex. 128a
(see below) could easily be brought to a definite end in the fourth measure (Ex. 1286)
THE PARTS OF LARGER FORMS
187
and,
instead
of
overlapping, the
repetition
could
begin
a
measure
later.
But
Mozart's economical mind compensates for the extension by entering one measure
early with the repetition.
In this coda all the six segments overlap. The second segment starts in m. 205, in
which the first segment ends. It is a repetition, extended to eight measures, or rather
nine, structurally and functionally, though the completion of the cadence is omitted
in viola and ’cello. Similarly the next segment (m. 213-19) is structurally seven mea-
sures, as its varied repetition (m. 219-25) proves. The last two segments (m. 225-7,
227-9) are three measures each.
Op. 57-1. The coda starts in m. 239 with a partial quotation of the subordinate
theme, with an expressive deviation in m. 243 to the gb- The segment, m. 243-5,
is
repeated in m. 246-8. Its end in m. 249 overlaps the beginning of the next segment of
three measures, itself repeated in m. 252-4. There follow in m. 255-6 two repetitions
of the ending of the previous phrase. Thus the length of the elements decreases (6, 4,
3, 3,
1,
1) throughout a dramatic crescendo. Six measures of tonic harmony follow
(m. 257-62), diminishing to ppp, dying away upon a reminiscence of the principal
rhythm.
Mozart, String Quartet in C, K.V 465-1. The first eight measures after the double
bar (m. 227) are the result of the retransition beginning in m. 220, which leads to the
subdominant region, in preparation for the repetition of the elaboration (m. 107). This


===== PDF PAGE 106 =====
LARGE FORMS
*
1
THE PARTS OF LARGER FORMS
opening segment of the coda re-establishes the tonic region and liquidates its own
motival obligations before giving way to the juxtaposition of the next segment (m.
235). Two three-measure and two two-measure segments follow, and the customary
repetitions of the tonic.
The coda of a set of variations need not differ from the coda of any other type of
movement. But since classical variations seldom contain greater harmonic contrast
than maggiore—minore, the coda usually contains more striking harmonic contrasts
and modulatory deviations.
Beethoven, String Quartet, Op. 18/5—III. The coda section starts (m. 98), after a
deceptive progression, on the flat submediant
It consists of a number of seg-
ments which elaborate in combination the first two phrases of the theme. In other
respects it does not differ from the cases previously described.
Mozart, String Quartet in d, K.V. 421-1V. The coda begins (m. 113) with a sub-
stantially unvaried quotation of the first eight measures of the theme. To describe
all the miraculous subtleties of this coda would take pages. The numerous small seg-
ments which follow arc, for the most part, contrapuntal additions to the prevailing
rhythmic figure. Occasional insertions and shifts cause the length of the segments to
vary, producing typical Mozartcan irregularity.
Mozart, String Quartet in A, K.V. 464—III, Andante.
1 The coda of these variations
starts with a pedal using the rhythm which gave this movement the nickname 'Drum
Variations’. It consists of a number of segments, one of which is a condensed quota-
tion of the theme (compare m. 164 with m.
1
; m. 169 with m. 6 and 14). The segment
beginning in m. 174 is derived, not from the theme itself, but from the fifth variation
(m.
1 15 ff).
Among Beethoven’s three largest sets of piano variations, the £b has a fugal finale.
The coda of the c Variations is attached to the end of the thirty-second variation. It
contains no modulation ; but it incorporates an additional variation, extended to ten
measures (m. 19-28), and is concluded with a few codettas. The coda of the Diabelli
Variations, which is also attached to the last variation, does not differ from the codas
previously described.
Beethoven, Twelve Variations in A. The coda comprises about a third of the whole
work, and is very rich in the number and remoteness of the modulations. At one point
it even reaches a region which must be described as the ‘mediant major of the domi-
nant’, on A\>.
Beethoven, Twelve Variations ‘iiber die (!) Menuett (in 4/4) a la Vigano'. This coda
also modulates to a remote point, the supertonic major (D).
Beethoven, Ten Variations in
B\>. The coda (beginning in m. 47 of Variation
10)
contains much passage work. There are two partial variations in the tonic region (m.
1 The Philharmonia score prints this movement as the third; but this is questionable, for in the Peters
Edition, it appears as the fourth. Probably it should be the second.
103,
119). two episodes in submediant (m. 47) and
Neapolitan (m. 146)
regions.
Codettas (Tempo I) complete the reduction and liquidation.
The preceding analyses have shown the great
diversity of formal
possibilities.
A number of features are common to most of them. Seldom
is a theme established
with the self-sufficiency and independence of a main theme. Varied quotations of
previous themes are often condensed into small segments, and connected by modu-
latory passages, which themselves may consist of previous material. When, after a
modulatory contrast, the tonic region
is
re-established, a longer segment usually
follows.
Finally, a number of codettas appear, becoming shorter and shorter, the
content progressively reduced to a mere V-I, or even to a repetition of I.


===== PDF PAGE 107 =====
THE RONDO FORMS
191
XIX
THE RONDO FORMS
The rondo forms are characterized by the repetition of one or more themes, separated
by intervening contrasts.
The ternary form, minuet -trio-minuet, and scherzo-trio-scherzo are prototypes of
this kind of organization. These are aba forms, in which the parts themselves may be
aba forms. A similarity to the larger rondos can be seen in Beethoven's Fourth and
Seventh Symphonies, where a double repetition of the scherzo produces an ababa
form. Schumann, by adding a second trio (in, for instance, the Scherzos of the First
and Second Symphonies, the String Quartet in a, and the Piano Quintet), produces
the form abaca.
Illustrations of the following types of organization can be found in the literature:
The Andante forms (aba and abab).
1
The smaller Rondo forms (ababa and abaca).
The large Rondo form (aba-c-aba), which includes a Trio (C).
The Sonata Rondo2 (aba-c'-aba), with Durchfuhrung (C
1
).
The Great Sonata Rondo (aba-CC
1 aba), containing both Trio and Durchfuhrung.
The structural elements of these forms can be simple and short, or compound and
long. There are transitions, codettas, episodes, etc., as described in the preceding
chapter. Each of the larger parts may consist of several segments. The classification
of the form is based on the number and position of the parts, not on the actual length
of the piece.
Repetitions of the A-section are almost exclusively in the tonic region; they may be
considerably varied (see p. 193). The B-section, which initially appears in a contrasting
region,
is transposed,
if
it recurs
in
the recapitulation,
to the tonic region, with
appropriate modification of the transition (see p. 194).
THE ANDANTE FORMS (ABA AND ABAB)
Op. 2/1—II. (abab.) The A-section is a ternary form (m. 1-16). A transition (m.
1
22) leads to the first subordinate theme in the dominant (m. 23), followed by a second
small idea (m. 28 with upbeat). The latter part of m. 31 acts as a bridge to the return
of the A-section (m. 32). The omission of the transition permits the B-section to follow
Who introduced this usdul term ?
immediately (m.
48), transposed to the tonic region. Three codetta-like measures
bring the movement to a close.
Op. 7—II. (abab.) The A-section is a ternary form (m.
1 -24). A small bridging phrase
connects to the B-section (m. 25), which starts in the flat submediant (Afr) region and
modulates through subdominant minor (/) and Neapolitan (D‘p) regions. In m. 37 the
dominant is reached. But instead of the recapitulation, a dramatic episode intervenes,
in which there
is a quotation of the main theme (in the remote tonality of Bi>. domi-
nant of the
flat mediant, m. 42). The real recapitulation appears
in m. 51
; the re-
capitulation of b, m.
74
is reduced considerably and transposed, suppressing the
modulatory tendency, to the tonic. A coda starts in m. 79.
Op. 28-11. (aba.) Both a and b are ternary forms. The repetitions in the recapitula-
tion are written out, with typically pianistic elaboration. A short coda quotes the
leading motives of both a and b.
Op. 31/1-11. (aba.) Although made up of only three sections, this movement is
1 19
measures long. The A-section is a ternary form (m. 1-16, 17-26, 27-34). The B-section
(m. 36) begins in flat submediant, and reaches the dominant in m. 53, dwelling on it to
introduce the recapitulation in m. 65. A coda begins in m. 99.
Op. 31/2—II. (abab.) A curious feature in this movement is the consistent use of a
single rhythmic feature in all the transitions and rctransitions (sec m. 17-30, 38-42,
59-72, 81
IT.). A short coda derived from the principal theme (m. 90) follows the final
retransition, which, surprisingly, is twice as long as the first.
Mozart, String Quartet in C, K.V. 465
II. (abab.) The theme of this Andante has
little resemblance to the previously described practice forms. There
is an elaborate
transition, m.
13. As
in the previous instance, the same motive recurs
in
all the
transitional passages (m. 39, 58) and in the coda (m. 101).
Brahms, String Quartet, Op. 31/2—II. (aba.) The main theme is a rather long ternary
form with codettas, but no transition. Curiously, the recapitulation begins in the flat
submediant region (F) and returns to the tonic only when the A’-section of the small
ternary form
is reached. Such aba forms can also be found among Brahms's piano
pieces, e.g. the Intermezzo, Op.
1 17/1. The effect
is more that of a large ternary form
than of a true rondo; only the fact that the main theme is itself a small ternary, and
that the A-section of it does in fact recur four times with intervening contrasts permits
tentative inclusion among the rondos.
Haydn, String Quartet in</. Op. 76/2-1 1. (aba.) The B-section is merely a modulatory
contrast and does not include a subordinate theme. Among the predecessors of the
classical school this embryonic form is frequently found.
The formal schemes under discussion can be found throughout the literature in all
kinds of cyclic works: sonatas, trios, quartets and even in symphonies. They are con-
fined to movements of slow or moderate tempo, in which more complex structures
would become excessively long.
i call these ‘rondos’
is perhaps an exaggeration.


===== PDF PAGE 108 =====
192
LARGE FORMS
Beethoven, Seventh Symphony-II. (abab.) This movement is extremely long, even
though the basic structure
is simple, because of the many repetitions of the main
theme. The full theme, including its internal repetitions, appears at the beginning no
less than four times. The B-section appears both times in tonic major. In the recapitula-
tion (m.
1 50) the theme appears complete only once. A fugato elaboration (m. 183) on
the main motive replaces the repetitions.
OTHER SIMPLE RONDOS
The patterns ababa and abaca are rather infrequently used as independent forms
(though they appear by analogy in the minuet with conventional repetitions— 1|
: a :||
: b
a:
II, which is, in fact, a-a-b-a-b-a—and in scherzos with more than one trio).
Op. 2/3— II. (ababa.) In consequence of the numerous appearances of slightly varied
forms of the basic} motive, the leading theme consists of only ten measures. But the
B-section is surprisingly long—thirty-two measures. It is a striking instance of ‘loose
formulation’. Although there are three distinct motive-forms, each repeated a number
of times, the treatment is very irregular. The phrases differ in length; the motive-forms
change in interval and direction; some parts start like sequences, but are not, etc.
The syncopated figure in m.
19, although each half-measure
is melodious, does not
reveal any real continuity if played alone. Its meaning is scarcely more than embellish-
ment of tones of the harmony, an etude-like procedure which
is characteristic of
loosely formulated contrasting sections. In effect, the harmony is the melody.
The recapitulation of b (m. 55), transposed as usual to the tonic, is reduced to only
twelve measures, omitting entirely the sixteenth-note figure of m.
13, 16 and
17. The
syncopated figure is repeated in a very free manner, indicating that the special melodic
contour of the previous statement was non-obligatory. The leading theme recurs for
the third time in m. 67, varied only slightly, and a short codetta follows.
Op.
13-11. (abaca.) The leading theme consists of eight measures, repeated, with
minor changes in the accompaniment, an octave higher. The subordinate theme (m.
17) is rudimentary, consisting of little more than a motive-form stated and liquidated
while the harmony moves from the submqdiant region to the dominant. In m. 29
a returns without change, and the repetition
is omitted. The second subordinate
theme resembles the first in character and treatment, but
is carried out more elabo-
rately, going into the fiat submediant region by enharmonic change (E — F\>). The
final recapitulation of a, complete with repetition, presents only a minor rhythmic
variation in the accompaniment. The usual codettas follow.
Ravel, Pavane pour une Infante Defunte. (abaca.) The main structure is self-evident.
Each of the subordinate themes is immediately repeated with slight variations. The
irregular dimensions of the sections (b is 6J measures; c is 91) enhance the interest of
an otherwise exceedingly simple construction.
THE RONDO FORMS
193
VARIATIONS AND CHANGES IN THE RECAPITULATION (PRINCIPAL THEME)
From a structural standpoint, changes in the principal theme when it recurs are not
necessary. But variation for
its own sake
is one of the distinguishing features of
higher art. In the larger forms an unchanged repetition seldom occurs.
The melodic outline and the thematic structure are usually preserved. The simplest
type of variation is a change of sonority brought about by a different setting, as in
Op. 13-11, m. 9-16. In Beethoven’s String Quartet, Op. 18/6—II, there are six different
settings of the basic segment (m. 1-4), including transposition, figuration, ornamental
additions and addition of semi-contrapuntal voices.
In piano style such freedom of voice-treatment is not always possible. Accordingly,
embellishments in the melody, changes of octave, subdivision of the accompaniment
and enrichment of the figuration are the usual variants.
Illustrations from the literature
Op. 2/2-IV. Variations of the upbeat can be observed in m. 41, 53, 100, 104,
112
and 135. Embellishments of the melody occur in m. 43, 102, 108, 137 and elsewhere.
Op. 7-1V. The fourth appearance of the main theme (m. 143), an octave higher than
the original,
is varied in m.
147 by the use of unifying syncopations and inserted
chromatic tones. The omission, in the first repetition of the ternary main theme (m.
51), of the A'-section is unusual. The unexpected Bit at the end of the B-section leads
prematurely to the trio. A similar surprise appearance of the B t; in m.
1 55 produces
an abrupt modulation to the Neapolitan region, introducing the coda. Was the first
introduced as a preparation for the second, or did the second merely take advan-
tage of the accidental appearance of the first? Which came first, the hen or the egg?
Op. 7—II. The beginning of the recapitulation
is unchanged. In the continuation
(m. 60) there are minor variations of the ornamental connectives, and interpolated
figures (m. 65 ff.).
Op.
10/3-IV. The theme
is varied by interpolation of imitations (m. 57 ff.) and
figurations (m. 85 ff.).
Op. 22-IV. The third appearance of the theme presents a quasi-contrapuntal inter-
change of voices (m.
112), though the right hand
is not elaborated. However, the
octave figure suggests the octave tremolando in the continuation (m. 122). In the last
repetition (m.
165) the melodic line
is elaborated with triplets, against the duple
accompaniment. Other changes are confined to ornamental variations in the ap-
proaches to cadences.
Op. 28-IV. The repetitions are varied merely through the addition of mellifluous
phrases in the fifth and sixth measures.
Op. 31/2—II. The repetition (m. 43) seems at first glance to be more remotely varied
than in the previous cases. However, beyond the interpolation of additional statements


===== PDF PAGE 109 =====
194
LARGE FORMS
THE RONDO FORMS
195
of the motive from m. 2. and the substitution of passage work for sustained chords
in the last half, there is little change.
Brahms, Second Symphony-Ill. Earlier composers sometimes introduce, in the pre-
ceding
retransition,
anticipatory quotations of the
material
of a
return theme
(Mozart, Symphony in g minor, K.V. 550-1, m. 1 39-64 ; Beethoven String Quartet, Op.
18/6-IV, m. 105-15). These may give the impression of a recapitulation ‘in the wrong
key’, broken off to make way for the real recapitulation.
Brahms goes further. In this movement, the principal theme is an a-b-a 1 form. In
the recapitulation (m. 194), the beginning reappears in the key of F%, a half step lower
than the original G. The continuation is subtly modified to return through a chromatic
third relation from the dominant of the relative minor to the original level in m. 207.
In compensation for this remarkable change of region, the recapitulation remains
close to the original version in other respects.
CHANGES AND ADAPTATIONS IN THE RECAPITULATION
(SUBORDINATE group)
Since the subordinate group is repeated only once, after a number of intervening
contrasts, variation is not strictly necessary. In fact, too much variation, especially at
the beginning of the subordinate theme, could easily prevent recognition. But in order
to repeat the subordinate material in the tonic region the transition requires changes.
At an appropriate point the transition turns toward a different region, often the
subdominant (major or minor), and continues indirectly to the upbeat chord, usually
by means of sectional transpositions of the original material.
In the simpler cases
there are no further changes and the ensuing material
is merely transposed to the
tonic region, perhaps with minor ornamental variations.
In more complex examples there may be omissions, additions or complete recon-
struction, though the more elaborate changes are not common in rondos.
Illustrationsfrom the literature
Op. 2/2-IV. The transition, which originally led to
I of £', is repeated unchanged
except for a two-measure reduction
in length and minor modification of the
last
measure. But the significance of the E chord becomes that of V in A (m.
123). The
rhythm of the subordinate theme
is modified so that the group of four descending
eighth-notes comes at the end of the measure instead of at the beginning. This theme,
also, is shortened slightly.
Op. 7-IV. The entire subordinate group
is recapitulated without major changes,
except
for the necessary redirection of the transition in m.
113. The syncopated
liquidating variation in m. 147 is interesting.
Op. 22-1V. The only significant change is in the transition, which starts exactly as
in its first appearance. In the fifth and sixth measures (m. 134-5) an added sequence-
like repetition of the two preceding measures changes the course of the modulation.
Op. 10/3-IV. The transition is modified in m. 67-68 and somewhat extended. But
the theme which originally appeared in m. 17 is omitted entirely. In its place appears
a modulatory section built on the basic motive.
Beethoven, String Quartet, Op. 18/6-IV. Here the transition (m. 61-76) undergoes
modification from the very beginning of its reappearance in the recapitulation. The
addition of accidentals in the first four measures (m. 132) prepares for transposition
of the continuation up a third (instead of up the expected fourth). Only in m. 145,
where two measures are added, is the shift made to lead to the dominant. The many
other interesting features of this rondo (especially the treatment of the rctransition,
which anticipates the main theme over a pedal point) cannot be discussed at this
point.
Op.
13—III. Treatment of the subordinate group in minor
is more complicated,
especially when the subordinate theme is in major. To repeat it in minor would change
its character and diminish the contrast. Therefore,
it usually recurs in tonic major
and at some later point turns to the minor. But far-reaching changes often accompany
such treatment.
Here the original transition (m. 18-24) completely disappears. Instead, the second
half of the theme provides motive-forms for a new transitional segment (m. 129-34).
The ensuing material, while retaining the original motive-forms intact, is reconstructed
quite freely. Only a hint of c minor is heard (m.
159) in the much extended closing
section
(m.
154-70), which
displaces
entirely
the
original
retransitional segment
(m. 51-61).
Beethoven, String Quartet, Op.
1 8/4-1 V. The original B-section (m. 17-40) is a small
ternary form with internal repetitions. In the recapitulation an added bridge (m.
1 1 1-
16) introduces a reconstructed B-section in the parallel major. The ternary organiza-
tion disappears; after a statement and repetition of its opening the thematic material
is liquidated and a long retransition using motive-forms of the
principal theme
appears (m. 137-62). The exposition contained sufficient contrast of tonality without
transitions. But in the recapitulation these modulatory passages become essential to
relieve the uninterrupted emphasis of the tonic (minor and major).
THE LARGE RONDO FORMS (ABA-C-ABA)
The large rondo forms generally express the character of the dance-song. The rate
of movement is moderate or rapid, and the mood cheerful, playful or brilliant. The
classical composers frequently used these forms as final movements in cyclic works
(sonata, string quartet or symphony).
Occasionally the middle section (c)
is comparable in
size and structure to the
B-section, providing an undifferentiated abacaba (Beethoven, String Quartet, Op.


===== PDF PAGE 110 =====
196
LARGE FORMS
18/4-IV). Usually, however, the c-section
is longer and more elaborate, resembling
the trio of a scherzo or the elaboration of a sonata-allegro. Thus the whole form be-
comes a complex ternary structure:
The trio section is often itself ternary, and it expresses a definite contrasting key,
usually somewhat more remote than that of the B-section. For example
Section aba
C
c (minor)
£b
c
{
U
The character of the c-section contrasts with both the a- and B-sections. Quite often
it is ‘6tude-like’ ; not infrequently it is ‘contrapuntal’ in the sense that the motive or
theme undergoes little internal variation, but instead is placed in various combinations
with itself and other material.
Illustrationsfrom the literature
Op. 2/2-1V. The A-section is a small ternary form (m. 1-16). A transition (m. 17-
26) leads to the B-section in the dominant region. This typical, loosely constructed
subordinate idea is connected to the repetition of A by a two-measure bridge (m. 39-
40). The trio (m. 57-99) is an etude-like ternary structure lying in the tonic minor
region, with internal repetitions
like those to be found
in the minuet. The final
repetition of the beginning of the trio (m. 88) changes into a retransition. The modi-
fications in the recapitulation are largely ornamental. The final repetition of the A-sec-
tion (m. 135) serves as the beginning of an extensive coda. Note the recurrence of the
trio theme in the coda (m. 161), after a deviation into the Neapolitan region.
Op. 7-IV. This rondo
is structurally similar to the previous example. The trio
is
etude-like, with a striking rhythmic figure offsetting the passage work. The final
repetition of A is modified to introduce the coda, this time through an unexpected
shift to the flat submediant region (B = Cb).
Op.
10/3—1 V. All parts of this rondo are relatively short and compact. Both hands
participate in the etude-like character in the trio (m. 35-45), which
lies in the flat
THE RONDO FORMS
197
submediant region. The retransition (m. 46-55) suggests the principal theme, but
gives way to octave eighth-notes which are related to the octave sixteenths near the
end of the trio. The embryonic subordinate idea of m. 17 disappears entirely in
the recapitulation and
is replaced by a modulatory passage (m. 74-83) built from
the basic motive.
Op. 13—III. The trio consists (m. 79) of six versions of the first phrase, separated
by a four-measure interpolation (m. 95-98) to form a small a-b-a*. The contrapuntal
interplay of the two voices is evident. In m. 99-106 the principal notes of each part
successively are filled in with eighth-notes to produce a descending scale line. The
end is modified to lead to the dominant of c, upon which an extended but simple
retransition is built. Other structural features of this rondo were discussed on p. 195.
Op. 28-IV. The exposition and
recapitulation exhibit no unusual features. The
pseudo-contrapuntal B-theme
is preceded by a
transition and followed by a
re-
transition. There is no connective to introduce the trio. Instead, the first segment of
the trio (m. 68-78) takes over the transition function, the previous tonic, £>, becoming
the dominant of the subdominant region (G). The chief content of the trio lies in the
contrapuntal section (m. 79-101). The upper voice of the first four measures appears
successively
in upper, middle and lower voices;
in the tonic, dominant and tonic
minor regions (relative to G). The other voices are varied in m. 87-95 and m. 95-100.
Otherwise, the treatment is similar to double counterpoint. The remainder (m. 101—
13) is simply an emphasis of the dominant of d, preparatory to the return of the main
theme in D (m.
1 14). The final repetition of the A-section is varied and extended to
introduce the coda.
THE SONATA-RONDO
The sonata-rondo, with a modulatory c-section elaborating previous thematic ele-
ments, and the great sonata-rondo, which combines trio structure with the develop-
ment or Durchfiihrung, call for treatment like the middle section of the sonata-allegro
form. This section resembles the modulatory middle section of the scherzo, but is
usually more elaborately organized. 1 The exposition and recapitulation need not
differ from those already discussed, though greater complexity and more far-reaching
modifications may arise.
Illustrationsfrom the literature
Op. 31/1—III. The exposition is normal. The first A-section is immediately repeated
in a variation placing the main theme in the left hand (m. 17-32). The transition (m.
33-42) uses the figure from the end of the theme. The c-section begins (m. 82) with
the main theme in the left hand (like m. 17-32) but in tonic minor. The continuation
makes clear that this
is the beginning of a modulatory process carried out with
1 A full discussion of this technique is reserved for Chapter XX.


===== PDF PAGE 111 =====
198
LARGE FORMS
motive-forms from the main theme. It closes with a pedal point on V (m. 129) which
prepares for the recapitulation. The modulatory scheme is:
Tonic minor
g
m.
83
Subdominant minor
c
m.
91
Flat submediant
E\>
m.
98
Subdominant minor
c
m. 106
Unstable
m. 114
Tonic minor
g
m. 121
The recapitulation (m. 132) presents slight variatiorts of the setting. The transition
and retransition are somewhat lengthened. The final repetition of a, which would
ordinarily occur in the vicinity of m. 205,
is displaced by the insertion of a passage
based on the middle section of the principal theme (cf. m. 9-10). a recurs finally in
m. 224, much expanded by means of rests and tempo changes.
It is difficult to determine whether all of the material between m. 205 and the end
should be classified as coda. Fortunately, the musical
result
is not determined by
conformity
to
analytical
expectations. Ambiguity
is sometimes a
quality
to
be
recognized, not necessarily to be explained away.
Op. 22-1 V. The A-section
in
its various appearances
is subjected to a variety of
ornamental intensifications and changes of setting. The group of subordinate themes
(m. 19-49) presents a number of distinct motive-forms
in loose juxtaposition. The
modifications in the recapitulation are worth study, particularly the treatment of the
bridge (m. 41-49), which
anticipates the melodic
figure
at the beginning of the
returning principal theme. In the recapitulation this passage is enriched and intensified
by the quotation of the entire
first four measures, transposed to the subdominant
region (m.
153). The c-section (m. 72-1 11) begins like a trio of the 6tude-like type,
in the unusual region of/(minor v!).
It gives way (m. 81) to a modulatory-contra-
puntal group, derived from the transitional segment used to introduce both b (m.
19-22) and c (m. 68-71). This incipient Durchjuhrung is followed by a return of the
etude-like segment, suggesting the ordinary ternary trio structure; but the key is 6b
(tonic minor), thus continuing the modulatory process instead of returning to the
region of the first statement, as the normal ternary procedure would demand. This
c-section thus combines trio character with the procedures of the modulatory middle
section, or Durchjuhrung.
XX
THE SONATA-ALLEGRO
(FIRST MOVEMENT FORM)
The
concept
of
the sonata
implies
a
cycle
of two
or
more movements
of
differing
character. The
great
majority of sonatas,
string
quartets, symphonies
and
concertos since the time of Haydn
utilize
this
structural
principle. Contrast
of key, tempo, metre, form and expressive character distinguish the various move-
ments. Unity
is provided by key
relationships
(the
first and
last movements use
the same tonic, and intervening movements are
related to
this tonic) and through
motival
relationships, which may be clearly evident or disguised with the utmost
subtlety.
Before Haydn
all the movements were normally in a single tonality, sometimes
alternating between major and parallel minor. The Viennese classic masters intro-
duced more variety by using other related keys for the middle movements.
While three or four movements are normal, examples ranging from two to seven
movements
exist. The
table on
p.
200
indicates
the wide
variety to be found
among the works of Beethoven.
In general, the first and last movements are in rapid tempo, though Op. 54 starts
‘In tempo d’un Menuetto’, Op. 26 begins with an ‘Andante con Variazioni’ and Op.
27/2 with an ‘Adagio sostenuto’. A short introduction in slow tempo, followed by the
customary allegro,
is not uncommon. The slow
last movement, ‘Adagio molto’ of
Op.
1 1 1,
is a rare exception.
Intervening movements
fall generally into two types, slow and moderately fast.
The slow movements vary from
Allegretto
or Andantino
to Adagio, Largo or
Grave. The moderately fast movements are ordinarily stylized dance forms,
e.g.
minuets
or
scherzos. The
latter, of course, sometimes move
at an
exceedingly
rapid pace.
Occasionally, one of the movements
is a Theme with Variations: Op. 26-1; Op.
14/2—II; String Quartet, Op. 74-IV. Absence of a slow movement permits the appear-
ance of both a minuet and a scherzo in Op. 31/3.
The last movement
is frequently written in one of the rondo forms. (Variations,
like Op. 109, or a Fugue, as in Op.
1 10, are exceptional.) But quite often the last move-
ment, and usually the first movement, is written in the great form which is variously
called ‘Sonata Form’, ‘Sonata-Allegro’, or First Movement Form.


===== PDF PAGE 112 =====
200
LARGE FORMS
This form, like the earlier ones, is essentially a ternary structure. Its main divisions
are the exposition, elaboration1 and recapitulation. It differs from other complex
ternary forms in that the contrasting middle section (Elaboration) is devoted almost
Relation of Movements—Beethoven Sonatas and String Quartets
Op. 10/1
Allegro mollo
c—3/4
Op. 14/2
Allegro
G—2/4
Op. Ill
Maestoso-Allegro
c—4/4
STRING QUARTETS
Op. 59/1
Allegro
F—4/4
Op. 132
Assai sostenuto-
Adagio
Allegro
/—2/4
F—2/4
Molto adagio
Alla marcia,
(Lydian Mode)
assai vivace
Op. 130
Adagio, ma non
troppo—Allegro
Bo— 3/4
Allegro mollo
Allegro
Presto
vivace
moderalo
D—6/8
Trans.—
E—2/2
exclusively to the working out of the rich variety of thematic material ‘exposed’ in
the first division. Its greatest merit, which enabled it to hold a commanding position
over a period of 150 years, is its extraordinary flexibility in accommodating the widest
variety of musical ideas, long or short, many or few, active or passive, in almost any
combination. The internal details may be subjected to almost any mutation without
disturbing the aesthetic validity of the structure as a whole.
1 The customary term, ‘development’, for this section, is a misnomer. It suggests germination and growth
which rarely occur. The (hematic elaboration and modulatory ‘working out’
(Durchfiihrung) produce some
variation, and place the musical elements in different contexts, but seldom lead to the ‘development’ of
anything new.
THE SONATA-ALLEGRO
201
The diagram below indicates the basic relationships of the form and some of its
possible ramifications.
It is assumed that the sonata-allegro is a very extended and complex form. This is
not necessarily true. The so-called sonatina does not differ essentially from those
sonata-allegros in which the minimum number of parts is used, and each is very small;
e.g. Op. 14/1, Op. 49/1, Op. 78, Op. 79. The length may vary between 100 measures
Structural Relations—Sonata-A llegro
A
B
A
B
Elab.
Tonic region
Related region
Modulatory
A
tr.
B
(C)
Elab.
a, b, etc.
c
d. e, f, etc.
and 300 or more; only the imagination of the composer determines whether the piece
will be short or long. There may be the most complete diversity in the relative lengths
of the elements of the form.
While the Durchfiihrung is usually considered the most characteristic feature, in
many important works it is short and sketchlike. While one expects this section to be
devoted to development only of the most important themes from the
first division,
sometimes the elaboration deals with themes which were unimportant or subordinate
at their first appearance; and occasionally an idea appears which, though deriving
from the basic material, never appeared before as formulated. Varied as the specific
cases may be, the formal purpose of this section is, as with other contrasting middle
sections, to provide a related contrast.
The elaboration is essentially modulatory, and for very good reasons. As the
form developed the first division became longer, composed of a greater number of
parts; more means of contrasting and joining them were used; more ways of building
and limiting themes became necessary; a unifying restriction of the harmony became
advisable to preserve the stability of the themes in spite of the internal harmonic
variety. Thus in the exposition, though some parts modulate and others express a
(related) contrasting tonality, apart from transitions, everything stands solidly within
the region of a definite tonality. In other words, the harmony is essentially stable.
This requires a different kind of contrast in the elaboration.
Economy dictates the use of previously ‘exposed’ thematic material (a wealth of
differing ideas is presented in the first division). Variety requires roving, modulating
harmony as a contrast to the generally stable nature of the exposition.
THE EXPOSITION
The exposition resembles the first division of the larger rondos in several respects.
The statements of the principal and subordinate themes are in contrasting but related


===== PDF PAGE 113 =====
202
LARGE FORMS
tonalities. A transition connects them in all but the simplest cases. A distinct contrast
of character helps to distinguish the various themes, though analysis will demonstrate
their inter-connexion through common use of basic motive-features.
It differs from the rondos in that the principal theme is not repeated prior to the
elaboration, and there is no return to the principal key. Instead, a closing section, still
in a contrasting region, completes the exposition.
Often
this
is a mere group of
codettas. Occasionally, a formulation derived from the principal theme provides the
material (String Quartet, Op. 18/1-1, m. 72; Op. 18/6-1, m. 80; Mozart, Symphony
in g, K.V. 550-1, m. 66). But generally a special theme, adapted to cadential harmonies,
is introduced, which may be reminiscent of any of the preceding themes, or quite
distinct.
THE PRINCIPAL THEME (OR GROUP)
The structure may vary widely—from a straightforward period or sentence, through
something resembling a ternary form, to a group of distinct themes joined in the most
subtle fashion. Often a return to the A-theme merges into a transition.
The ideas of the principal group are nearly always more thematic than melodic
(see Chapter XI) and the internal organization tends to be flexible and irregular, fore-
casting the metamorphoses to which the ideas will later be subjected. If the structure
is too symmetrical, subsequent freedom of articulation may be impeded. A striking,
motto-like beginning
is a useful feature (Op. 2/2-1, Op. 7-1, Op. 10/1—I, Op. 10/2-1,
Op. 22-1, String Quartet, Op. 95-1).
Illustrations from the literature
Op. 2/1-1. The theme, a simple sentence, is eight measures long. A transposition of
it provides material for a short transition which
is quickly liquidated, and the sub-
ordinate theme follows in m. 21.
Op. 2/2-1. There are two distinct ideas here: the motto-like beginning built from
descending broken chords, and the more lyrical continuation (m. 9). Both elements
are repeated in shortened, form (m. 21) and brought to a definite cadence in m. 32.
The free articulation of phrases of varying lengths within the thirty-two measures
places the chief internal cadence (to the dominant) in m. 20.
Op. 7-1. After the motto-like beginning (m. 1-4), a series of two-measure phrases
extend to m. 13, where an overlapping varied repetition further extends the passage
to m.
17. But here, still further extension takes place through a partially liquidated
continuation of the eighth-note passage work, which
suggests a
close in m.
25.
However, a varied repetition of the opening motto inaugurates the transition.
Op. 10/1—I. The initial segment (m. 1-4) contains two sharply contrasted character-
istics. The tonic form is immediately followed by a dominant form. The linkage in
m. 4-5 and 8-9 is so intimate that the phrase endings almost disappear. The two-
measure phrase which
is repeated and liquidated in the ensuing eight measures
is
THE SONATA-ALLEGRO
203
again a distinct, though related, motive-form. Several cadential additions lead to a
derivative of the first two measures, which appears three times, leading to a cadence
in m. 30.
Op.
10/2-1. The twelve-measure theme consists of three segments very rich
in
motive-forms. The repetition of the beginning in m. 13 leads at once to the dominant
of iii, in lieu of a transition.
Op. 10/3-1. The ten-measure sentence contains two elements: m. 1-4 and m. 5-10.
These are repeated in reverse order, with slight variations, at the end of the theme
leading to V of vi, in lieu of a transition.
Op.
14/1-1. Though short (twelve measures),
this theme may be considered a
prototype of the ‘group’ of themes. Four distinct motive formulations appear
in
succession.
Op. 28-1. This thirty-nine-measure theme (above a tonic pedal point momentarily
interrupted in m. 26 and 34) begins with a ten-measure theme, which
is immediately
repeated an octave higher. The continuation, m. 21-28, resembles the consequent of
a period in its relationship to the opening.
It, too, is repeated, and extended by a varied
repetition of the cadence. The variations and their articulation are subtle but not far-
reaching.
Even these few examples suggest the great variety of themes: the free articulation,
the irregularity in the length of segments, the number of distinct motive formulations,
the presence or absence of internal repetitions, the range of connective possibilities
with what follows (sometimes definite isolation by means of strong cadences followed
by codettas, sometimes complete merger without any break).
A feeling for the full flexibility of the form can only be gained by thorough study
of a great many examples from many composers.
THE TRANSITION
No special discussion of this feature is necessary. A considerable number of charac-
teristic examples have been discussed in Chapter XVIII.
Occasionally there is no independent transition (Op. 10/2 and Op. 10/3). But a well-
developed modulatory passage between the principal and subordinate themes be-
comes a valuable source of contrast in the recapitulation.
Both the transformation of the main theme into a transition, and the transition with
an independent theme are equally useful, the choice depending in part on the amount
of internal repetition incorporated in the principal theme.
Obviously,
in very extended works (symphonies, concertos), the transition may
require more than one theme.
The more extended
transitions normally close, of course, with liquidation and
emphasis of a suitable upbeat chord or region.


===== PDF PAGE 114 =====
w
204
LARGE FORMS
THE SUBORDINATE GROUP
The construction of this group was discussed in considerable detail in Chapter
XVIII. The most important single factor
is contrast with the principal group: a
different key or region, contrasting motive-forms, distinct rhythmic characteristics
and different types of thematic construction and articulation. There are nearly always
enough differentiated ideas here to justify the term ‘group’.
Some, at least, of the following features can be expected:
loose structure: direct and immediate repetition of segments, juxtaposition of
contrasting segments, often with an overlap; little or no recurrence of earlier features
within the section.
spinning out: derivation of succeeding motive-forms from preceding ones, leading
to sequences, condensation and liquidation. Chain-like interconnexion.
evasion of definite cadences until the end of the whole exposition. This device
contributes to the harmonic momentum, and helps to join remotely related motive
material. Incidental modulation may derive from this technique, without disturbing
the essential stability.
codettas, or even a definite closing theme, at the end of the group, marking the
end of the exposition.
key relationships are substantially the same as in contrasting middle sections for
the simpler forms. When the principal theme is major, the subordinate group nearly
always lies in the key of V. Sometimes the interchangeability of parallel major and
minor permits the appearance of part or all of the subordinate group in the key of
v (minor), with the exception of codettas (e.g. Op. 2/2-1, Op. 2/3-1).
In minor, the preferred keys are III (relative major) and v (minor). Since a theme
which first appears in a major key does not always work satisfactorily in minor, and
since the minor-major contrast between principal and subordinate themes may be
essential, considerable modification of the subordinate group may appear in the re-
capitulation (e.g. Op. I0/1-I, Op. 13-1).
Of course, departures from these relationships can be found, particularly in com-
posers after Beethoven. A striking example is to be found in Brahms’s Piano Quintet,
Op. 34, in /. The chief subordinate theme is in c# and recurs in the recapitulation in
/#. But such relationships are infrequent; and they always require masterly adapta-
tions of the form and the material.
Illustrations from the literature
Op. 7-1. This extensive subordinate group contains six distinct sections. The first,
emphasizing the dominant of B\) (V), consists of nine measures (m. 41-49). After a
two-measure (overlapping) connective, a varied repetition follows (m. 50-59). A con-
trasting more lyrical theme of eight measures (m. 60-67) is repeated with an orna-
THE SONATA-ALLEGRO
205
mental variation (m.
68) and extended to fourteen measures. A sudden harmonic
diversion after the dominant pedal point introduces a surprising major 6/4 chord of
C. A third idea evolves over a pedal point on G; a momentary cadence to C in the
eighth measure is extended to return to Bt> in m. 93. Here an overlapping fourth theme
appears in octaves;
it is repeated in m.
101, the incidental sixteenth-notes of m. 97
now overrunning the entire statement. A long tonic pedal point underlies the fifth
section (m. 111-27). A striking syncopation contrasts with the liquid sixteenths to
introduce the codetta (m. 127-36). From m. 82 to the end each cadence overlaps the
beginning of the ensuing section, thus intimately linking the contrasting formulations
and maintaining momentum.
Op.
10/1—I. The subordinate group begins (m. 56) with a lyrical phrase of four
measures which is immediately repeated, the relation being similar to the tonic form-
dominant form of the sentence. Two more four-measure phrases follow, forming a
varied repetition, in which the broken chords of m. 56-57 and 60-61 are replaced with
long scale lines (m. 64-65 and 68-69). A cadential extension
is also repeated with
variation, reaching the 6/4 in m. 86. An added segment (derived from m.
1) again
reaches the 6/4 in m. 90, and finally cadences to E\> in m. 94. The entire section from
m. 72 to m. 94 is a series of approaches to the cadence. The codettas (m. 95-105) are
derived from the end of the transition.
Op. 10/3-1. The subordinate group, after a principal theme which is short (twenty-
two measures) and simply constructed, comprises 102 measures
! The role of the sec-
tion from m. 23 to m. 53 is somewhat ambiguous. It begins with a clearly formulated
period of eight measures in the key of the relative minor (b). The next segment (m. 31)
makes the impression of the middle section of a small ternary form. But a sequential
modulation leads to A and an extended cadential process using liquidating devices
definitely establishes that key in m. 53. Is this section merely a transition? Or is it the
first subordinate theme, stated somewhat exceptionally in the key of vi ?
Another theme appears in m.
54, whose structure resembles that of a codetta.
Could this be the principal subordinate theme? After a repetition referred to the
parallel minor (m. 61-66), another distinct formulation carried out an extensive
modulation (much more elaborate than the alleged transition of m. 23-53), returning
to A
in m. 93. Three contrasted codettas follow (m. 94-105, 106-13 and
114-24),
the last of which is transformed into a retransition.
Op. 28-1 presents
similar problems. The principal theme comprises thirty-nine
measures, the subordinate group 124.
It is evident that the character, construction, complexity and length of the sub-
ordinate group are determined only by the demands of the individual composition.
Contrasting but related key, character and thematic material are essential. Sufficient
closing or codetta material to mark the end of the exposition clearly is the usual
practice, though a kind of retransition sometimes masks the definite formal sub-


===== PDF PAGE 115 =====
206
LARGE FORMS
division
normally
found.
Beyond
these recommendations
only
the
composer’s
imagination and inventiveness can determine the events of the subordinate group.
THE ELABORATION
(Durchfuhrung
)
It has been pointed out (pp. 200
flf.) that the elaboration is essentially a contrasting
middle section. Because the exposition is basically stable, the elaboration tends to be
modulatory. Because the exposition uses closely related keys, the elaboration usually
includes more remote regions. Because the exposition ‘develops’ a wealth of differing
themes from a basic motive, the elaboration normally makes use of variants of pre-
viously ‘exposed’ themes, seldom evolving new musical ideas.
The relative length of the elaboration varies widely. Examples can be found where
it is approximately half as long as the exposition
(e.g.
first movements: Op. 2/3;
Op. 10/3; Schubert, String Quartet in d). In some cases it is substantially equal to the
exposition (first movements: Op. 2/2; Symphonies Nos. 3and 5). The length can only
be determined by the nature of the material and the imagination of the composer.
The importance and significance of this division was much overrated during the
last half of the nineteenth century.
Technically, the elaboration resembles the Durchfuhrung of the scherzo (Chapter
XVI).
It consists of a number of segments, passing systematically through a number
of contrasting keys or regions.
It ends with the establishment of an appropriate
upbeat chord or retransition, preparing for the recapitulation.
The thematic material may be drawn from the themes of the exposition
in any
order. Often a small number of features, formerly inconspicuous, dominate the entire
division. Some of the segments remain for a time in a single region. Some are re-
peated in a sequential or quasi-sequential relationship. The various sections may be
strongly contrasted
in rhythmic features, thematic material, structure, length and
tonality.
In many elaborations the earlier segments arc the longer and more stable
ones. In approaching the retransition, shorter and shorter segments, often accom-
panied by more rapid change of region, provide both a climactic condensation and a
partial liquidation.
Occasional ‘roving’ passages, which pertain to no definite region, are interspersed
among more stable passages, somewhat resembling transitions. Segments overlap
freely, the end of one coinciding with the beginning of the next. As a method of
maintaining musical momentum, approach chords, especially dominants, are com-
monly emphasized more than the tonics to which they refer. Deceptive progressions
are also useful.
Movement from region to region is usually effected through the closer key relation-
ships, though the most remote regions may be reached in the process.1 There
is a
1 For detailed harmonic analysis of typical cases, see Schoenberg, Arnold, Structural Functions of Har-
mony, pp. 145 IT.
THE SONATA-ALLEGRO
207
tendency to favour regions employing more flats or fewer sharps than the principal
key of the movement, perhaps because the group of subordinate themes almost
always lies on the dominant side—more sharps or fewer flats. This tendency is parti-
cularly evident in the approach to the upbeat chord or retransition.
The beginning of the elaboration may be related to the end of the exposition in the
same manner as any other contrasting middle section. It may begin in the same region,
even with the same harmony. Or another degree or region may be juxtaposed, with or
without modulation. Tonic minor or major
is quite common. Sometimes a kind of
transition is interposed, or an introductory segment.
Illustrations from the literature
Op. 13-1. The structure of this elaboration
is not very different from that recom-
mended for the scherzo. After a four-measure quotation from the introduction, a
six-measure segment (m.
1 37-42) reformulated from elements of the principal theme
and the introduction
is stated
in e (relative minor of the dominant). A sequential
repetition a step lower follows in m.
143. A reduced and simplified version of four
measures (m. 149-52) now appears three times. Though the dominant of c is reached
in m. 157, an extended cadential progression, liquidating most of the features of the
theme, intervenes before the dominant is finally confirmed in m. 167. A long passage
ensues over a pedal point on the dominant (m.
167-87), which includes two more
references to the theme-form used earlier. An eighth-note descending figure (m. 187-
94) acts as retransition.
Op. 28-1. Here again the structure
is essentially monothematic, and based on the
principle of the sequence plus progressive reduction. The retransition at the end of
the exposition
is diverted to the key of the subdominant (G), in which the principal
theme
is restated (m.
167-76). A slightly modified restatement in the parallel minor
(g) gives way to a sequence of its last four measures, a fourth lower. These eight
measures (m. 183-90) are repeated with the voices interchanged as in double counter-
point. A reduction to four measures (m. 199-202) appears in d;
it is sequenced in a.
Further reduction to two measures (m. 207-8) with a freer (liquidating) treatment of
the eighths, and to one measure (m. 211
ff.) leads to a pedal point on HI (dominant
of the relative minor in m. 219). Residues of the motive are reduced to a mere rhyth-
mic reminiscence without even harmonic change (m. 240-56).
At this point the recapitulation could follow. Instead an episodic quotation of the
closing theme (m. 136) in B and b leads to V of D in m. 266.
Op. 2/1-1. References to the principal theme appear only in the introductory mea-
sures (m. 49-54), and in the retransition (m. 95-100). The main body of the elabora-
tion utilizes the subordinate theme and its residues in the familiar sequential manner,
reaching a pedal point on V in m. 81.
Op. 2/2-1. An introductory quotation of the principal theme (m. 122) leads de-


===== PDF PAGE 116 =====
208
LARGE FORMS
ceptively to the surprisingly remote region of A\>. An etude-like passage leads to a firm
close (m. 160) in C (bill). A sharply contrasted, rather lyrical section, derived from
m. 9-12, now follows. Residues, rather freely articulated (m. 181-201), lead to V in
m. 202,
after which liquidation
gradually clears
the way for the recapitulation
(m. 225).
Op. 2/3-1. After an introductory modulation using the closing theme (m. 91), an
etude-like passage on unstable harmony gives way to a sudden quotation of the
principal theme in D (m. 109). A pattern (m. 113-16), consisting of two sharply con-
trasted elements, is sequenced, following the circle of fifths, and extended to reach
the usual pedal point on V (m. 129). Residues of the principal theme appearing over
the pedal point anticipate its reappearance in the recapitulation (m. 139).
Op. 10/1—I. After a short introductory reference to the principal theme (m. 106-
17), the remainder of the elaboration is built upon a theme which, at least in this form,
is not found in the exposition, though it is certainly related to the transition theme
(m. 32) and to the subordinate theme (m. 56). A masterly imagination and intuition
are at work here.
Op.
10/2-1. The chief motive material of this elaboration derives from the inci-
dental octaves at the end of the exposition (m. 65-66) and the ornamental triplet
sixteenths of the principal theme. Again the composer’s imagination produces a ‘free
fantasia’ having only the most tenuous relation to the main themes. The end of the
elaboration does not reach the usual dominant because of the curious recapitulation
(see p. 210) which begins in D (submediant major).
Mozart, String Quartet, C, K.V. 465-1. Built entirely from the initial motive-form
of the exposition (m. 23-24), this elaboration is particularly instructive with regard
to the use of motival transformation. Beginning (m. 107) with an imitative dialogue
between violin and viola, the first segment presents a gradual expansion of the com-
pass of the motive, reaching a climax in m.
1 16. In the process the upbeat becomes
a broken chord, which takes over completely in m.
1 17. Note the transformation of
the dominant seventh on /-’into an augmented 6/5 which leads to the dominant of a.
The next segment starts again with the motive (m.
121), and the transformation is
carried further. Observe the figure of m. 122-3, in which the motive is reduced to con-
tinuous eighths with a compass of only a third. In the continuation the motive
is
shortened to a single measure (m. 126 ff.), the upbeat again becoming a broken chord,
which is liquidated in m. 128-9. The next two segments (m. 130-6, 137-46) use only
the shortened form. The dominant is reached in m. 145, and the original form of the
motive
recurs
briefly
in the formulation which appeared in m.
121, but quickly
evaporates into interwoven broken chords (m. 151-4).
Mozart, String Quartet in A, K.V. 464-1. The motival treatment here
is equally
noteworthy, particularly with regard to the gradual reduction and liquidation which
begins in m. 123. Mozart’s harmonic subtlety is fully evident in this elaboration. The
THE SONATA-ALLEGRO
209
end of the retransition (m. 162) overlaps the beginning of the recapitulation. A still
more striking overlap occurs in his Symphony in g, m. 165-6.
THE RETRANSITION
The close of the elaboration must be handled in such a manner as to neutralize
modulatory momentum and liquidate motival obligations created within the section,
and at the same time to prepare the listener for the return to the recapitulation. The
reduction of motive-forms to minimum content, and the presence of relatively long
sections stressing the dominant or some other suitable upbeat chord, have been men-
tioned in the foregoing analyses.
Often a bridging upbeat-like passage is inserted (e.g. Op. 2/3-1, m. 135; Op. 13-1,
m.
187; Op.
14/2-1, m.
121). Since this point
is the junction between two main
divisions,
a contrast of rhythm or dynamics, or both, and of register generally
reinforces the desired contrast.
In more complex compositions the liquidating passage over a dominant pedal point
is replaced with a series of segments resembling codettas, except that they repeatedly
approach the upbeat chord instead of the tonic. They may include internal modulation
or ‘roving’ harmony which, however, returns in various ways to the upbeat chord. In
the Eroica Symphony-I, the dominant
is reached
in m. 338, some sixty measures
before the recapitulation (m. 398). It recurs briefly in m. 354, and is finally established
in m. 378
ff. A similar treatment can be found in the Fifth Symphony between m. 190
and 248.
When the recapitulation does not begin with the tonic, a different upbeat chord may
be necessary, and the customary emphasis may be curtailed or omitted (e.g. Op. 10/2—
I, Op. 31/3-1).
THE RECAPITULATION
As in the larger rondos, the minimum change in the recapitulation
is the trans-
position of the subordinate group to the tonic region.
Since no modulation
is necessary, one might expect the transition to disappear
here. On the contrary,
its effect
is usually heightened, and
it
is often lengthened.
Unless the subordinate group contains modulatory elements, the transition now pro-
vides the only contrast to the tonic region which governs the entire recapitulation and
coda. Thus its value as a contrast becomes more significant.
A composer’s artistry usually demands more than the minimum necessary changes.
Variation, after all, is a merit in itself. Reductions, omissions, extensions and addi-
tions, harmonic changes and modulations, changes of register and setting, contra-
puntal treatment; even reconstruction may be applied as the composer’s imagination
dictates. Of course, the repetition must be recognizable as such, especially where the
themes enter. But the ‘adventures’ of the themes during the elaboration, and the


===== PDF PAGE 117 =====
210
LARGE FORMS
functional changes due to their placement in the form, nearly always require modi-
fication.
Illustrations from the literature
Op. 2/2-1. The first nineteen measures are repeated without change (m. 225-43).
The continuation, m. 20-31,
is omitted, and replaced by a seven-measure segment
(m. 244-50) which uses motive-forms from the preceding cadence. The transition
begins to change in m. 255; from m. 258 on, it is repeated with minor changes, partly
a fifth lower and partly a fourth higher. The remainder of the recapitulation is a mere
transposition to the tonic key, with slight changes and adaptations of the register.
There is no coda.
Op. 2/3-1. Certain odd features of the exposition contribute to the changes in the
recapitulation. The transition segment, m. 13-21, provides motive-forms used also in
the subordinate group, m. 61-69. The transition ends, curiously, on I of the dominant
region instead of the usual upbeat chord. The contrast factor is preserved because the
first section of the subordinate group lies in g (minor v).
In the recapitulation the leading theme
is repeated exactly (m. 139-46), but the
codettas of m. 9-12 are omitted. A new transitional segment, built from the motive-
form of the preceding cadence, replaces the segment, m. 13-20, but arrives at exactly
the same point (m. 21 and m.
1 55). The remainder of the transition is repeated without
change and untransposed, arriving at V in m.
1 60. But the subordinate theme follows
now in c, instead of g.
The subordinate group is repeated without any significant change up to m. 218.
Here a sudden shift, through a deceptive progression, to the region of A\> (flat sub-
mediant) inaugurates the coda. The closing segment of the exposition (m. 85-90)
is
postponed to the very end of the coda.
Op. 7-1. The leading theme (m. 189) is diverted in its fifteenth measure toward the
subdominant region, merging into a quite different transitional passage which is eight
measures shorter than the equivalent passage
in the exposition. The subordinate
group recurs in the principal key (m. 221), with only superficial changes. The final
closing segment is interrupted (m. 313) to make way for the coda.
Op. 10/2-1. Ambiguous relationships in the exposition may account for the curious
structure of the recapitulation. The principal theme ends in m.
18, on V of iii. The
ensuing section (which would ordinarily be a transition) begins stably in the key of
C (V). Only
its closing segment (m. 30-37) emphasizes the dominant of C. The
character of this passage is that of a subordinate theme.
The recapitulation (m. 118 ff.) begins, strangely, in D (Vi) with a quotation of the
first twelve measures of the principal theme. The following six measures are modified
to approach the dominant of F(I), like a transition built from the principal theme. But
in m.
1 37 the second element of the principal theme (already presented in D, m. 122-9)
THE SONATA-ALLEGRO
211
recurs in the principal key, F. The ambiguous segment referred to above (m. 19-37) now
appears, transposed, like any subordinate theme, to F. But in lieu of m. 27-29, a quite
different modulatory segment of ten measures (m.
1 53-62) is inserted leading to C (V),
which is now emphasized like the end of a transition, citing the remainder (m. 30-37)
of the interrupted passage. The rest of the recapitulation
is a repetition transposed
to the tonic key without change except for two added measures (m. 187-8). There is
no coda, but merely an additional repetition of the two-measure cadence at the end.
Op. 10/3-1. A similar ambiguity in the exposition produces only minor changes in
this recapitulation, perhaps because of the length and large number of themes.
The beginning is repeated literally (m. 184) up to m.
197, where a new connective
segment built from the end of the theme (and one measure shorter) replaces the repeti-
tion of the opening segment. The theme of m. 23, which originally appeared in b (vi),
now recurs in e (ii), intact except for the omission of two measures between m. 221
and m. 225. The rest presents only minor changes up to m. 296, where an extension
of the half-note theme and a reconstruction of the retransition introduce a coda con-
taining internal modulation.
The
recapitulation
in minor
presents
special
problems,
particularly when
the
subordinate group is in major. The interchange of mode upon repetition in the prin-
cipal key is not always practical ; and remaining too long without relief in the minor
becomes tiresome. The adaptations made to solve these problems vary widely. A few
representative examples should be supplemented by further exploration.
Op. 2/1-1. The transition (m.
109) is reconstructed, using the same motive-forms,
above a
different harmonic skeleton. The entire subordinate group recurs in the
principal key (/) without significant change. A short codetta
is added.
Op. 10/1— I. The leading theme is repeated (m. 168-90), omitting m. 23-31, which
were based on the opening motive-form. The transition (m. 191-214), substantially
intact, now leads to V of/(iv), and the subordinate theme follows (m. 215) in F
(IV)! Fourteen measures are repeated literally, providing contrast in major; then after
a short connective, the entire passage is repeated again in c. The remainder presents
no significant change.
Op.
13-1. The original transition
is discarded
in the recapitulation (m. 195 IT.).
In m. 207 the end of the theme is diverted and extended leading to V of/ (iv). The
chief subordinate theme now recurs in /, but is soon (m. 231) diverted toward c. The
remainder stays in the vicinity of the principal key, with, however, pervasive modi-
fications of detail. A short coda is appended.
String Quartet, Op.
18/4-1. A quite different solution appears here. The entire
subordinate group, originally in E\> (III), appears in the recapitulation in tonic major
(Q. The return to c occurs only at the second codetta (m. 199).
Mozart, String Quartet, d, K.V. 421-1. The entire subordinate group is recapitu-
lated in tonic minor. Straightforward as this might appear, from the beginning of the


===== PDF PAGE 118 =====
f
212
LARGE FORMS
transition (m. 84) hardly a phrase reappears in its original form. Changes of melodic
line, harmony, rhythm and even structure occur everywhere. Particularly striking is the
shift of phrase after phrase by a half-measure, interchanging primary and secondary
accents. Yet far-reaching as the changes are, the psychological effect is only that of
a variant; the recognizability of the repetition is not in the least endangered. Mozart
excelled in such subtle reconstruction.
THE CODA
The function of the coda, and techniques employed in it, were discussed in Chapter
XVIII. Its application to the sonata-allegro form does not differ from its use in the
cases described there.
The presence or absence of a coda,
its length and complexity,
its character and
thematic material, are subject to endless variety. Common features are: repeated
cadences to the tonic; citation of previous themes; reduction in length and content
of segments in approaching the end. In the more elaborate codas modulatory seg-
ments often appear as transient contrasts, returning to the tonic.
Illustrations from the literature
Op. 2/1-1. A short codetta
is added (m. 148-52).
Op. 2/2-1. No additions.
Op. 2/3-1. The closing theme is interrupted (m. 218) by a deceptive progression to
flat VI. Through modulatory broken chords and a cadenza, the tonic is reintroduced
in m. 233, with a quotation of the leading motive. A passage reminiscent of the
imitative syncopations in m. 123 ff. leads again through a rather extended cadence to
the tonic in m. 252, where the broken octaves that closed the exposition recur to close
the movement.
Op. 7-1. The closing codettas of the recapitulation are enriched and extended (m.
313 If.), with a reference to the leading motive. Another segment, stressing movement
from I to V, is built from the second subordinate theme (m. 324-39). A pedal point on
V is reached in m. 339, over which the codetta figure recurs, treated like the end of
a retransition. The tonic is reached in m. 351 and prevails to the end.
Op.
10/3-1. The exposition closes with a retransition (m.
1 14 ff.) which, in the
recapitulation, introduces the coda (m. 299). After emphasis of the subdominant
region, the dominant of flat II appears in m. 317, using the theme of m. 75. Through
ambiguous and modulatory harmony, the tonic is reapproached in m. 327. References
to the beginning of the leading theme and neutral passage work, associated with an
ostinato repetition of the tonic, bring the movement to a close.
Mozart, Symphony, g, K.V
550-1. The coda includes a modulatory passage (m.
280-4) and imitative, liquidated quotations of the leading motive (m. 286-92) between
the two codetta figures.
THE SONATA-ALLEGRO
213
CONCLUSION
The meaning of form as the organization of intelligible musical ideas, logically
articulated, is particularly evident in the music cited here. It is also evident (as stated
in the first chapter) that the more developed forms cannot be constructed by laying
musical bricks together, or pouring musical concrete into preconceived moulds.
Only the sensitive formal feeling of the artist can determine the evolution of a
motive into the fully elaborated masterpiece, stripped of excess, but fully realizing
the composer’s vision.
Clearly this book lays only a foundation, drawing from the practice of composers
basic principles, processes and methods, which can be imaginatively applied far beyond
its limits.
The continued, intimate and thorough study of musical literature is the best means
of extending and clarifying these concepts.


===== PDF PAGE 119 =====
APPENDIX
215
APPENDIX
(Editor's note. The following description of Fundamentals of Musical Composition represents
Schoenberg’s first formulation of the aims, contents and methods of this book. It was included
in a letter that he sent to Professor Douglas Moore of Columbia University on
16 April
1938.)
FUNDAMENTALS OF MUSICAL COMPOSITION
The principal aim of this textbook is:
(1) in first order, to provide for the average student of the universities, who has no special
talent for composing or for music at all;
(2) to widen the horizon of the teachers (of this and other continents);
(3) to ofTer, at the same time, everything to the talented musician, and even to him who
later might become a composer.
This will be made possible by the circumstance that every technical matter is discussed in
a very fundamental way, so that, at the same time,
it is both simple and thorough.
I have not decided definitely whether this will be done by printing the advice and the
examples in much smaller size or by adding a ‘second part’ which gives
further advice’ to
both the average student and the talented one. This will soon be done when
I go over the
whole for the first time. I incline more to the idea of this second part, because it would better
restrict the part for the average student to the necessary minimum and one would not be
afraid to extend the additions so that they really become of value to a future composer.
There will be discussed the usual musical forms: sentences, periods, three-part song form,
menuetto, scherzo, theme with variations, the various rondo-forms and sonata.
There will be explained, and advice given (among others) for such technical details as:
how to build motives, phrases, half-sentences, sentences, periods; the use of harmony as basis
and backbone of all formal purposes; stable, solid forms and loose construction; transition,
modulation, subsidiary themes, codettas and codas, and, especially, the elaboration. One of
the most important matters: harmonic variation.
For the construction of themes and melodies advice
is given by discussing how to vary
motives and phrases; ways are shown how to join the various motives to build units. For
variations, advice
is given by showing, in a very rich manner, numerous ways of circum-
scribing, of figuration, of development of the rhythm and of the harmony (systematically).
There arc special articles on: Manners of Accompaniment, Use of Counterpoint in the
Homophony, Character and Mood, Monotony and Contrast, Coherence, Even and Uneven
Structures, Climax, Melody and Theme.
A special feature of this book will be the examples and the assignments for the student.
To illustrate how this will be carried out I will mention, in place of further details, only one
of these cases:
When the scherzo is discussed the student is asked either to compose by himself(according
to advice) a theme, or to use a motive from a composition by a master. The example now
brings a scherzo theme built with the use of a motive from an adagio by Beethoven. This is
one point. And now, to build the second part—the elaboration—there follow examples of ‘how
to draw from one’s theme’. There are given twenty different patterns (four measures each)
to show: how the basic motives can be transformed; on which degree one can start and end;
how the pattern can provide for the following sequence; how the harmony can behave (the
sequence is added in different ways). And now follow twelve examples showing different ways
of continuation after the sequence, including the liquidation of the elaborated motives and
the retransition to the recapitulation.
I think this method is perhaps the most outstanding feature of the whole book, pedagogi-
cally. In my three years’ contact with university students (I had to change many of my ideas
which
I developed within almost forty years of teaching)
I have realized that the greatest
difficulty for the students is to find out how they could compose without being inspired. The
answer is:
it
is impossible. But as they have to do
it, nevertheless, advice has to be given.
And
it seems to me the only way to help is if one shows that there are many possibilities of
solving problems, not only one. This method of showing always a great number of methods
of solving problems and explaining them systematically
is carried out through the whole
book on every point where it is necessary.
Considering the great number of subjects and, especially, of examples, one might expect
that the book will become too voluminous. But it seems that it could be kept within a normal
size if one uses such types which are used in new music editions and ifone uses a form of paper
which corresponds better to a textbook on music than used hitherto. But in no case will it
surpass by very much the customary extent of books on this subject.
ARNOLD SCHOENBERG
